2007-01-16
Singapore ( SG )
Crime ; narcotics
An Australian man was charged in Singapore with drug trafficking .
Singapore 's Central Narcotics Bureau said on 070116 in a statement that Australian Michael Karras was arrested on 070109 after being found in possession of 495 grams of cannabis .
The statement said Karras was subsequently charged for the offence of trafficking in a controlled drug .
Karras faces at least 5 years ' imprisonment and a minimum 5 strokes of the cane if convicted but would escape the death penalty sentence mandatory for anyone caught trafficking more than 500 grams of cannabis .
The arrest of Karras comes more than a year after the highly publicized hanging of Australian Nguyen Tuong van .
Nguyen was executed in 051200 for trying to smuggle 400 grams of heroin via Singapore to Australia in 020000 .
Nguyen 's hanging despite heavy lobbying from the Australian government for Singapore to show clemency triggered public outrage in Australia where capital punishment is outlawed .
Singapore also applies the death sentence to other crimes including murder , treason , kidnapping and firearms offences .
2007-01-16
Israel ( IL ) ; Republic of Korea ( KR ) ; Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP ) ; Iran ( IR )
International ; proliferation ; politics
Israeli Foreign Minister Visits South Korea to discuss connection between North Korea and Iran 's nuclear programs and enforcement of UN resolution on Hezbollah .
20070116 Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni stated at a meeting in Seoul --
Israel and South Korea share concerns over the connection between North Korea and Iran in the pursuit of weapons of mass destruction .
South Korea and Israel oppose proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and an arms race .
Livni visited Seoul 20070115-20070116 to discuss enhancement of bilateral relations with South Korean Prime Minister Han Myeong - sook and Foreign Minister Song Min - soon .
Livni is the first Israeli foreign minister to visit Seoul since relations between Israel and South Korea began in 1962 .
Livni will travel to Tokyo next .
Livni stated --
Israel supports South Korea 's plan to send 350 troops as part of UN peacekeeping forces to Lebanon later in 2007 .
The UN arms embargo on Hezbollah remains unenforced because the open Syria - Lebanon border is being used to transfer weapons to Hezbollah .
UN Security Council Resolution 1701 ended the 34 day conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in 2006 .
The resolution demands a full arms embargo on Hezbollah in Lebanon and the removal of Hezbollah as a fighting force from southern Lebanon .
The US accuses Iran of seeking a nuclear weapon .
Iran insists that nuclear program exclusively develops nuclear energy for the growing Iranian population .
20061009 North Korea conducted its first nuclear test .
2007-01-25
Philippines ( PH )
Narcotics ; crime ; international
A Taiwanese drug trafficker named Tsai Wen - Huang was arrested in the Philippines on January 25 , 2007 after fleeing from a conviction for selling Ketamine ..
Police stated on January 25 , 2007 that a fugitive Taiwanese drug trafficker named Tsai Wen - Huang has been arrested in the southern Philippines .
Tsai Wen - Huang had been a fugitive since 2001 when he was convicted for selling Ketamine .
The arrest occurred in the southern city of Koronadal on Mindanao island .
Police stated that Tsai Wen - Huang fled to Manila to work with a local trafficker while he was a fugitive .
Police also stated that Tsai Wen - Huang would buy Ketamine locally and export the Ketamine to Taiwan at a marked up price .
Tsai Wen - Huang is knowledgeable in chemistry and computer technology .
Tsai Wen - Huang admitted to counterfeiting Taiwanese currency .
Police stated Tsai Wen - Huang would be extradited to Taiwan .
Police stated that Ketamine is a substance used largely in manufacturing methampethamine hydrochloride or ice .
2007-02-01
China ( CN )
Space ; military ; politics ; international
China said on February 1 , 2007 it did not want an arms race in space .
China did not comment on Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 's claims that China 's satellite - destroying test had broken international law .
China said on February 1 , 2007 it did not want an arms race in space .
China did not comment on Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 's claims that China 's satellite - destroying test had broken international law .
China 's Foreign Ministry refused to react directly to Abe 's comments that Beijing had violated an International Space Treaty when it shot down one of its own satellites with a missile on January 11 , 2007 .
Spokeswoman Jiang Yu said China had already stated China 's position .
Many other countries are concerned about the peaceful uses of outer space .
The countries oppose the weaponization of space and an arms race in space .
China wants them to make common efforts to realize this goal .
Abe said to the Japanese parliament on January 31 , 2007 that Abe believed China 's test was not in compliance with basic international rules such as the Outer Space Treaty .
The 1967 UN treaty bans weapons of mass destruction in space and said that all nations should avoid contamination of space and be held liable for any damage caused .
The United States is concerned that debris from the Chinese test could damage satellites or the manned international space station .
Jiang Yu said she was not aware of the specific information concerning space debris .
Yu insisted that China would be a force for peace and stability .
Jiang Yu said China has not and will not participate in an arms race with other countries and will not threaten any other country .
China said it had the right to carry out the test after destroying the satellite .
The United States and the then Soviet Union are the only other nations to have carried similar tests .
Both stopped the practice in 1985 partly over concerns about the debris left in space .
2007-02-03
Saudi Arabia ( SA )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime ; government
10 individuals are detained in Saudi Arabia on February 3 , 2007 for suspicion of illegally collecting money to fund terror - related activities .
The Interior Ministry of Saudi Arabia stated on February 3 , 2007 that Saudi Arabian authorities have arrested 10 people suspected of illegally collecting money to fund terror - related activities .
7 Saudis and a foreign resident were detained on February 2 , 2007 after Saudi Arabian authorities caught the individuals undertaking the suspected illegal activities in jeddah province in the west of the Kingdom .
2 other Saudis linked to the group were arrested separately in Jeddah and the Muslim holy city of Medina .
Oil - rich Saudi Arabia has been combating a wave of violence by suspected al-Qaeda militants since May 2003 .
Saudis are among foreign insurgents fighting US - led forces in Iraq .
In early December 2006 Saudi Arabia announced the arrest of 136 suspected al-Qaeda militants over 3 months in one of the largest crackdowns since Saudi Arabia began battling Islamist extremists .
2007-02-05
France ( FR )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime
13 Kurds from Turkey were arrested near Paris on suspicion of money - laundering for the Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
The European Union and other countries regard the PKK as a terrorist organization .
French police stated that 13 Kurds from Turkey were arrested near Paris on 5 February 2007 on suspicion of money - laundering on behalf of the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
French police stated the 12 men and 1 woman are being held on suspicion of criminal association in relation with a terrorist enterprise as well as funding terrorism and organized money - laundering .
The 13 Kurds were seized in the Paris region departments of Yvelines , Hauts - de - Seine , Seine - Saint - Denis and Val d'oise as part of an investigation headed by France 's leading anti - terrorist judge Jean - Louis Bruguiere .
The PKK is regarded as a terrorist organization by the European Union , the United States and Turkey .
The arrests followed an incident in which 2 Turkish Kurds were detained over a suspicious cash - changing transaction involving 200000 euros ( 260000 dollars ) .
Police gave no further details of the suspects .
2007-02-06
Indonesia ( ID )
Narcotics ; crime ; international
Indonesian judges sentenced Australian Michelle dawn Condon to 3 months in jail including time served on drug charges .
Condon is the latest Australian convicted on drugs charges in Indonesia .
Indonesian judges on 6 February 2007 sentenced Australian Michelle dawn Condon to 3 months in jail including time served on drug charges .
Judge Wayan merta read the verdict in court on the island of Bali and stated Condon was guilty of drug use and not trafficking .
Condon will be released the week of 11 February 2007 as Condon was arrested on 16 November 2007 and has remained in detention since the arrest .
Condon was allegedly carrying 0.2 grams ( 0.007 ounces ) of crystal methamphetamine at the time of the arrest .
Prosecutors dropped trafficking charges against Condon the week of 28 January 2007 and stated that a medical examination revealed Condon was a long - time addict .
Condon is the latest Australian convicted on drugs charges in Indonesia .
6 Australians have been sentenced to death for drug trafficking .
The 6 Australians are members of the Bali 9 gang convicted of smuggling heroin .
The other 3 members of the Bali 9 gang were given life sentences .
Australian Schapelle Corby was convicted of trafficking marijuana into Bali and jailed for 20 years .
The Indonesian government has issued stiff penalties for drug traffickers and users with 35 other convicts on death row for narcotics offenses .
2007-02-07
Vietnam ( VN )
Narcotics ; crime
After a 2 - week trial in Hanoi a Vietnamese court sentenced 3 people to death and issued prison terms to 52 people for running a heroin trafficking ring .
Possession of more than 600 grams of heroin or more than 20 kilograms of opium carries the death penalty in Vietnam .
A court official stated that after a 2 - week trial in Hanoi a Vietnamese court on 7 February 2007 sentenced 3 people to death and issued prison terms to 52 people for running a heroin trafficking ring in Hanoi .
A Hanoi People 's Court official stated that the 3 defendants to be executed included 1 woman and were found guilty of trafficking and selling approximately 18 kilograms ( 48 pounds ) of heroin from provinces near the Lao border .
The official stated that 10 people received sentences of life in prison .
The official stated that 42 defendants received sentences between 1 and 23 years in prison .
7 of the 42 defendants were policemen who protected the trafficking ring .
The heroin trafficking syndicate trafficked the drug from the northwestern provinces of Lai Chau and Son La from 1999 until the arrests in 2004 .
On 30 January 2007 8 people were sentenced to death and 13 people were sentenced to life in prison for trafficking 216 kilograms of heroin and other drugs from Laos .
Possession of more than 600 grams of heroin or more than 20 kilograms of opium carries the death penalty in communist Vietnam .
2007-02-08
Europe ; United Kingdom ( GB ) ; Spain ( ES )
proliferation ; international ; politics ; government
Authorizing of EU sanctions against North Korea meets difficulties due to Britain 's disagreement with Spain over the sovereignty of Gibraltar .
Diplomatic sources said on 070208 that EU sanctions against North Korea cannot go forward due to Britain 's disagreement with Spain over the sovereignty of Gibraltar inhibiting Gibraltar 's Chief Secretary from being listed as one of the required competent authorities .
The European Union decided in 061100 to ban the export of arms and nuclear and missile technology as well as luxury products in compliance with the UN resolution number 1718 adopted after Pyongyang carried out nuclear tests in 061000 .
The EU also introduced restrictions of entry to the EU for individuals deemed to be aiding North Korea 's programs for nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction .
Before the measures are applied , the legal sanctions document requires a list of authorities , banks and other bodies in each Member State which would supervise compliance with the sanctions and freeze assets .
British spokeswoman Vicky Courtney in Brussels said Britain insisted that Gibraltar 's Chief Secretary be listed as the competent authority as had done on previous occasions without Spain making any complaint .
Gibraltar 's Chief Secretary acts as the link between the gibraltan government and the British government and Governor .
Another diplomatic source , said the Spanish government was afraid that any mention of a gibraltan authority would constitute a precedent in relations between the EU and Gibraltar and so opposed the move this time .
The Government of Spain insists that Britain should be named in the annex to the document but not Gibraltar .
The Spanish Government refuses to afford any international legitimacy to Gibraltar .
The UK and Spain are seeking to reach a formula which would satisfy both sides .
The 2 EU nations have thus far failed to do so .
Courtney said there is some frustration with the fact that the sanctions are being held up .
Courtney added that it is important to find a constructive solution applicable to this and other documents in future and said that the application of other sanctions also runs the risk of being blocked .
Other EU - levied sanctions include those against Iran over the Iranian nuclear program .
Gibraltar was ceded in perpetuity to Britain by Spain under the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht , however Madrid still claims sovereignty .
Gibraltarians in 020000 overwhelmingly rejected moves by Britain and Spain to move towards joint sovereignty for Gibraltar and Gibraltar 's 30000 inhabitants .
Gibralta RIS located at Spain 's southern extremity .
2007-02-09
France ( FR )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime
5 Kurds from Turkey are under investigation in France after being arrested on suspicion of money - laundering for the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
10 other Kurds will go before a judge on 9 February 2007 .
French officials stated on 9 February 2007 that 5 Kurds from Turkey have been placed under investigation in France after being arrested on suspicion of money - laundering on behalf of the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
The Kurds were seized the week of 4 February 2007 as part of an investigation headed by France 's top anti - terrorist judge Jean - Louis Bruguiere .
The 5 Kurds are being investigated on suspicion of criminal association in relation with a terrorist enterprise as well as funding terrorism and organized money - laundering .
The PKK is regarded as a terrorist organization by the European Union , the United States and Turkey .
10 other Kurds will go before a judge on 9 February 2007 .
2007-02-09
France ( FR )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime
10 Kurds are under investigation in France on suspicion of money - laundering for a terrorist organization known as Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
Officials stated on 9 February 2007 that 10 Kurds have been placed under investigation in France after being arrested on suspicion of money - laundering on behalf of the banned Kurdistan Workers ' Party ( PKK ) .
The 10 Kurds were part of a group of 15 Kurds seized the week of 4 February 2007 in an investigation headed by France 's leading anti - terrorist judge Jean - Louis Bruguiere .
The other 5 Kurds are being investigated on suspicion of criminal association in relation with a terrorist enterprise as well as funding terrorism and organized money - laundering .
14 of the group have been remanded into custody .
Most of the group are from Turkey .
The PKK is regarded as a terrorist organization by the European Union , the United States and Turkey .
10 other Kurds will go before a judge on 9 February 2007 .
2007-02-15
India ( IN )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime ; business
India 's National Security Adviser warns that terrorist outfits have utilized fictitious companies in stock market operations to raise funds for terrorist operations .
A terrorism expert in India stated that stock market manipulation to raise funds is a new development .
National Security Adviser M. K. Narayanan stated in a speech posted online on 15 February 2007 that isolated instances of terrorist outfits manipulating the stock markets to raise funds for terrorist operations have been reported .
Narayanan stated that stock exchanges in Mumbai and Chennai have occasionally reported that fictitious or notional companies were engaging in stock market operations .
Some of these companies were later traced to terrorist outfits .
Narayanan called for the lifting of banking secrecy and the corporate veil in terrorist - related cases in order to combat the financing of attacks .
Narayanan first made the comments at a high - level gathering on international security in Munich on 11 February 2007 .
Former head of the counter - terrorism wing of India 's overseas intelligence service bahukutumbi Raman stated to AFP on 15 February 2007 that dislocating or attacking the stock market has been tried in the past but that using stock exchanges to fund attacks appeared to be a new development .
Raman stated that this kind of stock manipulation has not come to light yet .
Raman recommended tightening regulations governing India 's stock markets to ensure that genuine companies only engaged in operations .
2007-02-23
United Kingdom ( GB )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime
5 men were remanded to court for allegedly plotting to kidnap and kill a British solder and post a video of the execution on the Internet .
A 36 - year - old man accused of plotting to kidnap and kill a British soldier was ordered held in custody on February 23 , 2007 at a preliminary hearing at London 's central criminal court .
On January 31 , 2007 security sources stated the alleged plot involved plans to kidnap and behead a British Muslim soldier and then post a video of the execution on the Internet .
Police refused to comment on the specific allegations .
Parviz Khan and 4 other defendants charged with lesser offences appeared at the Old Bailey by video link from prison .
The defendants were all remanded until another hearing on April 2 , 2007 .
The 5 men were among 9 men arrested in a series of raids in the city of Birmingham in west central England on January 31 , 2007 .
Parvis Khan is charged with engaging in conduct to give effect to intention to kidnap and kill a Member of the British armed forces between November 1 , 2006 and January 31 , 2007 .
Amjad Mahmood was charged with failing to disclose information which might have been of material assistance in preventing the plot .
Parvis Khan , Amjad Mahmood and 3 other men named Mohammed Irfan , Zahoor Iqbal and Hamid elasmar are charged with 2 offences of allegedly supplying equipment for terrorism and funding terrorism abroad .
None of the men has entered a plea to the charges .
A sixth man arrested on January 31 , 2007 named basiru Gassama has been charged with withholding information about a potential act of terrorism .
Basiru Gassama 's case is still in a lower court .
Strict contempt of court laws in the United Kingdom prevent the media from reporting details of the case against defendants before any trial in order to prevent the risk of seriously prejudicing a jury that will hear the evidence .
2007-02-27
Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP ) ; Korea , Republic of ( KR )
proliferation ; international ; politics
Roh Moo - hyun stated that he believes North Korea wants to move towards openness and reform despite developing nuclear weapons .
On 070227 South Korean President Roh Moo - hyun stated that he believes communist North Korea wants to move towards openness and reform despite developing nuclear weapons .
In a live broadcast news conference Roh Moo - hyun stated that North Korea would give up weapons of mass destruction if North Korea feels North Korea 's security is guaranteed .
Roh Moo - hyun stated that he believed that North Korea will move toward openness and reform since North Korea 's leaders will find no other alternative but to move toward openness and reform unless North Korea 's leaders are insane .
Roh Moo - hyun defended the South Korean government 's decision in the past to give aid to North Korea .
Roh Moo - hyun stated that the aid South Korea gave North Korea was designed to open up North Korea and the aid did not help North Korea develop nuclear arms .
North Korea is a reclusive state .
Roh Moo - hyun stated that the reason that North Korea has developed nuclear weapons was that North Korea felt threats from countries that do not believe North Korea will ever introduce reform and openness .
Roh Moo - hyun stated that North Korea developed nuclear weapons in order to stop the other side making threats and North Korea wants to engage in talks .
Roh Moo - hyun was speaking as a South Korean government delegation flew to Pyongyang for the first ministerial talks in seven months .
The resumption of South Korea 's food aid to North Korea is expected to be high on the agenda at the ministerial talks .
North Korea carried out North Korea 's first nuclear test in 061000 .
North Korea 's first nuclear test generated international condemnation and sanctions .
North Korea 's first nuclear test was followed by months of diplomacy .
After the months of diplomacy and during six - nation talks in Beijing in 070200 North Korea agreed to dismantle North Korea 's nuclear program in return for economic aid and diplomatic benefits .
2007-03-02
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya ( LY ) ; United Kingdom ( GB ) ; United States ( US ) ; Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP ) ; Iran ( IR )
proliferation ; international ; politics
Kadhafi warns that US and Britain 's failure to compensate Libya for nuclear disarmament will deter Iran and North Korea from disarming .
20070302 Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi stated in an interview published on the BBC website --
Britain , the EU and the US have not invested in Libya following the country 's abandonment of its nuclear weapons program .
Western countries ' failure to sufficiently compensate Libya will deter Iran and North Korea from disarming .
Other countries should emulate Libya 's example but the example has been destroyed because the US and Britain did not fulfill their promises .
Kadhafi stated --
Libya may still cooperate with Western countries for mutual benefit .
The lack of foreign support will not cause Libya to return to hostile pursuits .
Kadhafi spoke with the BBC from the 30th anniversary celebration of Libya 's Jamahiriyah ( State of the masses ) political system in Sebha .
In 2003 Kadhafi normalized Libya 's relations with Britain , France and the US by pledging to abandon attempts to develop nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction .
Kadhafi had been widely condemned by the international community in previous decades due to opposition to Western countries and alleged support of terrorism .
Iran is facing new United Nations sanctions after refusing to stop enriching uranium
Western countries widely suspect Iran of building atomic weapons under the pretense of a program to develop civilian nuclear power .
North Korea claimed to have successfully tested a nuclear warhead in 2006 .
The international community condemned the action .
North Korea has recently pledged to cease all nuclear activity but some suspect that a covert uranium program remains .
2007-03-05
Australia ( AU )
terrorism ; international ; politics
Australia 's Foreign Minister warns of continuing terrorist threats despite efforts against militants .
Australia 's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer warned 070305 in opening remarks at a counter - terrorism conference Jakarta that terrorists continue to find new recruits and launch attacks despite the foiling of some plots and the jailing of militants .
Indonesia and Australia are co - hosting a 2 - day meeting in Indonesia 's capital attended by the foreign ministers of Malaysia , Thailand and the Philippines and a senior minister from Singapore .
Downer said terrorists are still at large despite terrorist plots having been foiled , terrorists having been captured and prosecuted and terrorist networks having been disrupted .
Downer said that terrorists ' methods and abilities become more sophisticated even as Governments ' capacity to stop them improves .
Indonesia 's Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said terrorists must not be stopped at the expense of democratic principles .
Wirajuda said terrorists must be stopped without resorting to repressive and undemocratic measures like the violation of human rights or disregard of due process of law .
Wirajuda added that terrorists had been evolving new strategies and tactics and thus are becoming an even greater threat to peace , security and progress .
Wirajuda stated there was a need for better ways of denying terrorists access to weapons of mass destruction and that more effective ways of denying the terrorists access to deadly weapons and especially weapons of great killing power must be devised .
Wirajuda said that vigilance and innovative measures were key to an adequate response to the terrorist threat .
Downer hoped the countries at the meeting could agree on cooperation to stop terrorists acquiring unconventional weapons and to improve law enforcement , intelligence sharing and the response to attacks causing mass casualties .
The Jakarta conference follows an earlier counter - terrorism meeting in Bali in 040200 attended by ministers from 20 Southeast Asian and Pacific countries .
A series of terror attacks have hit Indonesia .
The most recent attack was a triple suicide bombing in the resort island Bali in 050000 that killed 20 bystanders .
The worst attack hit Bali in 021000 and claimed 202 lives .
2007-03-13
United Kingdom ( GB )
environment ; dissent ; proliferation ; politics
Peace activists from Greenpeace climbed a crane on the River Thames outside Britain 's houses of parliament and called MPs to campaign against Prime Minister Tony Blair 's plans to renew the UK 's nuclear deterrent .
Peace activists climbed a crane on the River Thames outside Britain 's houses of parliament on 070313 to campaign against Prime Minister Tony Blair 's plans to renew the UK 's nuclear deterrent .
4 protesters from Greenpeace clambered an estimated 200 feet up the maintenance crane moored on the river and unfurled a banner suggesting Blair loved weapons of mass destruction .
Greenpeace said in a statement that the activists scaled the structure at about 6:00 am GMT and were phoning and attempting to persuade members of parliament ( MP ) to vote against the government .
A Greenpeace spokesman said the 4 volunteers aim to occupy the crane until the vote takes place and hope to telephone as many MPs as possible urging rejection of new weapons of mass destruction .
Lawmakers in the UK parliament 's lower House of Commons are to debate and vote on 070314 whether to back Blair 's controversial 38 - billion - dollar plan to replace the US - built Trident missile system .
Nuclear weapons are still a divisive issue in Blair 's governing Labour Party as unilateral nuclear disarmament was once official labour policy in the 800000 .
Many traditionalists accuse Blair of stifling debate on the subject and claim Trident is a costly and obsolete relic of the cold war and is no longer required .
Deputy Leader of the Commons Nigel Griffiths resigned on 070312 so as to be able to vote against Blair 's government and was joined on 070313 by junior health department aide Jim Devine .
A widespread rebellion from rank - and - file Labour lawmakers is widely predicted .
A BBC Radio poll on 070311 said 64 out of the 101 Labour MPs whom were asked expressed opposition to Blair 's plans .
A further 15 Labour MPs were undecided .
22 backed the proposals .
Lobby group the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament ( CND ) on 070313 said 62 Labour MPs and a total of 105 MPs overall had signed an amendment to the vote calling for more time to discuss the issue .
Blair is not expected to lose the vote but will have to rely on the support of the main opposition Conservative Party .
The conservatives broadly back Blair 's plans for a new submarine - based weapons system .
2007-03-15
United States ( US )
International ; politics
The UN General Assembly adopted Secretary - General Ban Ki - moon 's proposal to reform 2 UN core activities peacekeeping and disarmament .
The UN General Assembly on 070315 endorsed UN Secretary - General Ban Ki - moon 's proposal to reform 2 UN core activities peacekeeping and disarmament .
The General Assembly adopted by consensus a restructuring of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations ( DPKO ) involving a split into 2 separate entities for peacekeeping operations .
A Department of peace operations will be tasked with strategy and day - to - day direction and management .
A separate Department of field support will consolidate the support functions of UN field personnel , procurement and financial management .
France 's Jean - Marie Guehenno is the current head of DPKO and will stay on as chief of the future dpo .
The General Assembly also approved Ban 's plan to establish an Office of Disarmament Affairs ( ODA ) to replace the current Department of Disarmament Affairs .
The Secretary General has dismissed suggestions that turning the Disarmament Department into an office signified de - emphasis and said the office would instead report directly to the UN Secretary - General and would ensure access and more frequent interaction .
Developing countries have criticized the larger Powers on disarmament and specifically for failing to reduce nuclear arsenals while insisting on non - proliferation of all weapons of mass destruction .
Ban announced plans soon after taking office on 070101 to reform the UN 's sprawling peacekeeping operations and tighten control over disarmament matters .
The peacekeeping and disarmament reforms were strongly backed by Western countries and faced initial resistance from developing countries .
This resistance prompted ban to launch a process of consultations with the General Assembly to explain the ideas for reform .
2007-03-23
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR ) ; United Kingdom ( GB ) ; China ( CH ) ; France ( FR ) ; Russian Federation ( RU ) ; United States ( US ) ; Germany ( DE ) ; Qatar ( QA ) ; Indonesia ( ID ) ; South Africa ( ZA ) ; Ghana ( GH ) ; Congo , Republic of ( CG ) ; Peru ( PE ) ; Panama ( PA ) ; Belgium ( BE ) ; Italy ( IT ) ; Slovakia ( SK )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; economy
The UN Security Council has been holding frantic talks to try to reach consensus on a draft text broadening UN sanctions against Iran .
The UN Security Council on 070323 was holding frantic talks to try to reach consensus on a draft text broadening UN sanctions against Iran .
Russian delegates were offering compromise language on an amendment calling for a nuclear - free Middle East .
The 15 UN Security Council members met behind closed doors early 070323 to put the finishing touches to a amended text submitted 070322 by the text 's 3 sponsors Britain , France and Germany .
They were to meet again later 070323 to consider an amendment requested by Indonesia and Qatar for insertion of a paragraph into the draft on the goal of establishing a Middle East free from weapons of mass destruction and all missiles for their delivery .
Diplomats said the United States was opposed to the inclusion of this paragraph .
The Russian delegation offered compromise language stating that a solution to the Iranian nuclear issue would contribute to global non - proliferation efforts as well as those in the Middle East .
Qatar 's UN ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser said the Security Council would discuss some amendments raised by Qatar , Indonesia and South Africa and expressed hope that a consensus could be reached .
Nasser stressed that the meeting on the afternoon of 070323 would be very important .
The Security Council members had by late on 070322 fine - tuned minor changes made to the text agreed 070311-070317 by Germany with the 5 veto - wielding permanent council members Britain , China , France , Russia and the United States .
South Africa expressed disappointment that its suggestions were rejected for a 90 - day suspension of UN sanctions to allow political negotiations with the Iranian government to remove the weapons ban and other financial sanctions .
The draft resolution under consideration would ban the Iranian government from exporting arms and call for voluntary trade sanctions as well as expand a list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions .
A vote was expected on 070324 .
2007-03-26
Indonesia ( ID )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; energy ; economy
An Indonesian official says Indonesia agreed to further UN sanctions against Iran over the disputed atomic program because the sanctions promote the goal of a nuclear weapons - free Middle East .
Indonesia 's Foreign Minister Hassan Wirajuda said on 070326 that Muslim - majority Indonesia agreed to further UN sanctions against Iran over the Iranian government 's disputed atomic program because the sanctions promote the goal of a nuclear weapons - free Middle East .
Wirajuda said the Indonesian government was supporting implementation of a nuclear weapons - free zone in the Middle East and pointed out that Israel is the only country in the Middle East which possesses nuclear weapons .
A clause which emphasized that resolving the Iranian nuclear issue would help to realize the objective of a Middle East free of weapons of mass destruction was included in the sanctions resolution at the request of Indonesia and Qatar .
Some commentators have criticized Indonesia for backing the sanctions because such a stance could diminish Indonesia 's standing among Muslim nations .
Wirajuda said the proposition introduced in the UN resolution for a nuclear weapons - free zone in the Middle East is supported by Arabic countries .
The resolution was passed unanimously on 070324 after days of hard bargaining by the Security Council 's 15 members .
Indonesia currently holds one of the Council 's rotating seats .
The sanctions block all Iranian arms exports and freeze the overseas assets of 28 additional officials and institutions linked to Iran 's nuclear and ballistic missile programs and restrict financial aid or loans to the Iranian government while setting a new 60 - day deadline for the Iranian government to comply with UN demands or face further appropriate measures .
The Iranian government reacted angrily and expressed intent to restrict cooperation with the UN nuclear watchdog IAEA in retaliation .
2007-03-27
Japan ( JP )
International ; Government ; weapons ; proliferation ; war and conflict ; military
Japan on March 27 , 2007 deployed troops to Nepal to monitor Nepal 's ceasefire .
This was the first military mission since Japan created a full - fledged Defense Ministry .
Japan on March 27 , 2007 deployed troops to Nepal to monitor Nepal 's ceasefire .
This was the first military mission since Japan created a full - fledged Defense Ministry .
Officially Japan is a pacifist nation .
A Defense Ministry official said that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 's cabinet decided at a meeting to dispatch six soldiers to Nepal to observe arms control for a year .
Japan will help monitor weapons and soldiers under the peace accord that ended Nepal 's decade - long Maoist insurgency .
Nepal is in the Himalayas .
Japan is a major donor to Nepal .
Japan was forced by the United States to renounce its right to armed forces after World War II and has been slowly expanding its military operations overseas .
Japan created a full - fledged Defense Ministry in January 2007 for the first time since 1945 .
Japan upgraded the former defense agency which was lower in rank than cabinet - level ministries .
Abe 's conservative government also listed overseas peacekeeping activities as a mission for Japan 's military because of the change .
They are known as the self - defense forces .
Deployments abroad had been previously considered extraordinary and led the Government to seek parliamentary approval .
Defense Minister Fumio Kyuma told reporters that this is the first time Japan will deploy the Self - Defense Force abroad since peacekeeping became one of the main missions for the troops .
Kyuma said that Japan has to pay careful attention to the security .
Japan sent 600 troops in its most prominent deployment to Iraq on a reconstruction mission .
The soldiers returned last year without suffering any casualties or firing a shot .
2007-03-27
North Korea ( KP )
proliferation ; international ; politics ; business
The European Union adopted sanctions against North Korea on March 27 , 2007 that put North Korea in line with a UN Security Council resolution .
It was passed after North Korea announced a nuclear test .
The European Union adopted sanctions against North Korea on March 27 , 2007 that put North Korea in line with a UN Security Council resolution .
The resolution was passed after North Korea announced a nuclear test .
The sanctions include a ban on the sale or export of all materials that could be used in North Korea 's nuclear and ballistic missile programs or in the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction .
The EU froze the assets abroad of some North Korean officials .
The EU banned exports to the country of luxury goods like caviar , truffles , high - quality wines and perfumes and pure bred horses .
The bloc supported UN resolution 1718 in November .
The application of sanctions required a formal EU decision .
The decision was delayed by an argument between Britain and Spain concerning the method in which Gibraltar would implement the measures .
The resolution was passed after the North Korean government announced that it had performed its first nuclear weapons test on October 9 , 2006 .
The announcement triggered world - wide outrage .
2007-04-01
Kenya ( KE )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; crime ; terrorism
Illegal arms trafficking increases in Kenya due to easy availability and neighboring conflicts .
Government initiatives to disarm have been ineffective .
Illegal arms trafficking has increased in Kenya and raised concern about security .
Daniel kiptugen of Oxfam stated that there are approximately 140,000 illegal arms in circulation in Kenya among the most vulnerable and marginalized groups .
Illegal weapons are easily procured in urban open - air markets despite a government initiative launched in 2006 to curb the availability of arms .
Kenyan security minister John Michuki recently stated at a ceremony burning 8000 illegal arms seized in 2006 to prevent the spread of firearms --
Firearms fuel the illegal exploitation of natural resources and abet terrorism and other crimes .
The easy affordability and accessibility of arms reduces incentives to pursue non - violent solutions to conflicts and initiates a spiral of insecurity .
Police stated that conflicts along Kenya 's borders have increased the number of weapons in the area .
Conflicts include a 20 - year insurgency in Uganda , anarchy in Somalia since 1991 and the former civil war in Sudan .
Police spokesman Gideon kibunjah stated --
Kenya has always experienced serious arms trafficking but the free sale of arms in Somalia presents an additional problem .
Weapons smuggling has increased since 20061200 when Ethiopian - Somali troops eradicated an Islamist movement from south and central Somalia .
Mogadishu experienced chaos and arms control at the border with Kenya became a low - priority issue .
Kenya has participated since 2000 in a regional treaty to control and reduce the number of illegal arms in the Great Lakes and Horn of Africa but has achieved limited success in disarmament .
Kiptugen stated --
The impact of government disarmament programs had not yet been apparent .
Forced disarmament process has never been successful because it fails to address the impetus of the demand : competition for natural resources and a lack of government security forces .
Pastoral communities in northern Kenya frequently resolve tribal conflicts concerning water and land access by gun battles .
Communities consider guns a means of self - protection and protection of the community 's livelihood .
Gun Control activist Walter Odhiambo stated that increased economic inequity in Kenya is a catalyst for violence .
2/3 of the population subsists on under 1 dollar per day .
The Kenyan government has increased promises to augment security measures before President Mwai Kibaki contends for re - election in 20071200 .
The US issued a travel advisory to US citizens warning of increasing incidents of violent crime after 2 Americans were shot and killed in Kenya in 20070100 .
Kenya has struggled to overcome a reputation of high crime rates and frequent terrorist threats after the country experienced deadly terrorist attacks in 1998 and 2002 , ongoing tribal conflicts and a crime wave that killed 50 in 20070100 .
Kenya was previously considered relatively stable compared to surrounding countries in the Great Lakes and Horn of Africa ridden with regional conflicts .
2007-04-12
Thailand ( TH )
Weapons ; military
Thailand 's Defense Ministry has decided to develop and produce rockets and missiles .
Jane 's Defence Weekly reported on 070412 that the Thai Government has decided to develop and produce rockets and missiles in a radical shift towards building an indigenous defense industry .
Jane 's said the program would lift Thailand beyond the current capacity for producing explosives , ammunition and small arms under licence as well as modernizing and repairing aircraft and armored vehicles .
The Thai armed forces do not currently have any surface - to - surface missiles in their inventory .
Jane 's cited an internal Thai Defense Ministry document which said Thailand will start by developing a multiple - launch rocket ( MLR ) with a range of 80 kilometers ( 48 miles ) .
Jane 's said there is already a project underway to develop a 160 millimeter MLR with a 40 - kilometer range and that other projects include a strategic rocket with turbojet engine guided by Global Position System and inertial navigation system .
The Thai Ministry document says funding pressures on the defense budget and encouragement by unspecified sectors for greater self - sufficiency is driving the new program .
Such a rocket is significant because of the implication of efforts to develop a surface - to - surface missile with a range at the upper limit of the voluntary Missile Technology Control Regime ( MTCR ) .
The MTCR is a global disarmament group involving the United States and 33 other members and was established in 870000 to control exports of missiles which can deliver weapons of mass destruction .
Thailand 's King bhumipol Adulyadej enjoys strong support from the armed forces which overthrew the Thai government in a bloodless coup in 060900 and has called for a sufficiency economy .
Jane 's added that the new research and development program was launched before the coup but gained formal approval upon submission to the country 's Defense Council about a month afterwards .
2007-04-15
Iran ( IR ) ; Israel ( IS ) ; Jordan ( JO )
International ; politics ; proliferation ; weapons
UN atomic energy chief ElBaradei urges Governments of Israel and Iran to join nuclear - free zone in the Middle East .
ElBaradei states that a Middle East peace deal can only be reached in parallel with a security agreement based on eradicating all weapons of mass destruction from the region .
According to the Government of Jordan UN atomic energy chief Mohamed ElBaradei speaking on 15 April 2007 after talks in Jordan with Jordan 's King Abdullah II urged Iran and Israel to join a nuclear - free zone in the Middle East .
ElBaradei is the International Atomic Energy Agency chief .
According to a statement issued by the Jordanian Government ElBaradei stated that ultimately the Middle East should be a zone free of weapons of mass destruction .
ElBaradei stated that this zone includes Israel and Iran .
ElBaradei stated that this is the last chance to build security in the Middle East based on trust and cooperation and not on possession of nuclear weapons .
ElBaradei was quoted as saying that a peace deal between Israel and its Arab neighbors must be reached in parallel with a security agreement based on eradicating all weapons of mass destruction from the region .
ElBaradei stated that Arab countries have joined the Non - Proliferation Treaty while Israel has not .
Israel is the only nuclear power in the region despite the program being undeclared .
Israel possesses an arsenal of approximately 200 warheads .
Israel 's enemy Iran is suspected by Europe and North America of using a nuclear energy program to develop atomic weapons .
The Government of Iran strongly denies this allegation .
2007-04-19
India ( IN ) ; Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR ) ; Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
International ; Government ; weapons ; politics ; proliferation ; energy
India has banned all direct and indirect export and import of materials , goods and technology to North Korea and Iran that could aid in those countries ' suspect nuclear programs .
On 19 April 2007 Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath unveiled India 's foreign trade policy which stated --
India has banned all imports and exports of products to North Korea and Iran that could aid in North Korea 's and Iran 's suspect nuclear programs .
The Indian government has prohibited direct and indirect export and import of materials , goods and technology that could contribute to North Korea 's nuclear - related , ballistic missile - related or other weapons of mass destruction - related programs .
The Indian government has prohibited direct or indirect export and import of all items , materials , goods and technology that could contribute to Iran 's enrichment - related , reprocessing or heavy water - related activities .
India has prohibited direct or indirect export and import of all items , materials , goods and technology that could contribute to Iran 's nuclear weapons delivery systems .
India maintains diplomatic relations with North Korea .
India incurred international isolation after performing nuclear tests in 1998 .
India is energy - hungry .
India is negotiating a civilian nuclear energy deal with the United States .
The civilian energy deal will give India access to previously forbidden technology .
India has repeatedly requested talks to resolve the disagreement over Iran 's suspect nuclear ambitions .
The Press Trust of India news agency reported that India 's ban on trade with Iran and North Korea is in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions .
2007-04-26
Egypt ( EG )
International ; crime ; money ; terrorism ; Government ; military
Members of Egypt 's opposition Muslim Brotherhood on trial in Egyptian military court including high - ranking businessman thought to fund the Organization .
Defense lawyers boycotted the closed - door session arguing that they had not been made aware of the trial dates .
A judicial source stated that approximately 40 members of Egypt 's opposition movement Muslim Brotherhood went on trial at a military court on 26 April 2007 charged with belonging to a banned organization and funding terrorism .
Defense lawyers boycotted the closed - door session arguing that they had not been made aware of the dates of the Tribunal .
Family members were initially banned from the proceedings but were eventually permitted entrance .
Family members stated that the defendants remained silent during proceedings because their counsel was not present .
Journalists , family members and diplomatic observers have been allowed into the courtroom for past military trials of Islamists .
The courtroom is at a military base in the desert outside Cairo .
The session on 26 April 2007 was approximately 4 hours in duration and was adjourned until 03 June 2007 .
Defendants included Khayrat Al-Shater who ranks number 3 in the hierarchy of the Muslim Brotherhood .
As part of the Government 's repression of Egypt 's largest opposition bloc Al-Shater was arrested in December 2006 following a university demonstration in which masked pro - Brotherhood students staged a military - style parade on the campus of Al-Azhar University in the capital city Cairo .
Al-Shater and other businessmen linked to the group had their assets frozen and were referred to a military court in February 2007 .
The targeting of Al-Shater and other businessmen associated with the movement has been considered an attempt to disable the Organization financially .
Egyptian authorities accuse the movement of seeking to reactivate its underground military wing with the aim of eventually overthrowing the regime .
The Muslin Brotherhood controls a fifth of the seats in Parliament .
The Government of Egypt began using military courts to try members of the Muslim Brotherhood and other Islamic groups in the 1990s when they were not being convicted by civilian courts .
Under a law passed by Parliament last week the verdicts of military courts can now be appealed .
2007-04-30
Austria ( AT )
proliferation ; international ; politics
A conference of the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) will begin on 30 April 2007 in Vienna .
Experts stated the preparatory session can not change the treaty but is expected to focus on problems in fighting proliferation and in getting the 5 original nuclear weapons states to fulfill the NPT commitment to disarm .
A conference on the world 's nuclear non - proliferation treaty ( NPT ) against the spread of nuclear weapons opens on 30 April 2007 in Vienna .
The meeting will take place through 14 May 2007 and is the 1st of a series of Preparatory Committee sessions ahead of the next overall review in 2010 .
The NPT went into effect at the height of the Cold War in 1970 and was extended indefinitely in 1995 .
The NPT has 188 signatory States and is a deal in which nuclear weapons States agree to disarm while nations without the bomb agree not to seek the bomb .
The NPT is reviewed every 5 years .
The meeting in May 2005 failed to resolve any key questions due to an agenda disagreement between non - aligned countries and nuclear powers .
The NPT Conference occurs as --
The crisis over Iran 's atomic program escalates though Iran has not yet produced atomic bombs .
A deal to dismantle North Korea 's nuclear program which has produced atomic bombs has stalled .
A U.S. strategy to use pre - emptive force if judged necessary and Britian 's nuclear arsenal upgrade threaten the NPT .
Experts stated the NPT is ill adapted to the modern era in which so - called rogue States seek to acquire a nuclear weapons capacity by 1st developing peaceful programs under the terms of the treaty .
Experts stated that fixes should include tougher UN inspections and automatic penalties for countries who drop out of the treaty .
The North Korean government withdrew from the NPT in 2003 after expelling United Nations inspectors .
The North Korean government tested an atomic bomb in October 2006 .
The Iranian government justifies nuclear work under article IV of the NPT which guarantees the inalienable right to develop research , production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes .
U.S. government stated that the Iranian government uses article IV as a cover for the secret development of nuclear weapons which the Treaty bans .
Non - proliferation analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington George perkovich stated the NPT is the most effective treaty in history and referred to the fact that predictions made in the 1960s that there would soon be 30-40 nuclear weapons States have not come to pass .
There are believed to be 9 nuclear weapons states .
The States are the 5 allowed under the NPT , Britain , China , France , Russia and the United States .
The States also include North Korea which withdrew from the treaty and 3 nuclear states including India , Pakistan and Israel which have refused to sign the NPT .
Diplomats and experts stated the preparatory session can not change the treaty but is expected to focus on problems in fighting proliferation and in getting the 5 original nuclear weapons states to fulfill the NPT commitment to disarm which is a focus of non - aligned States .
Nuclear and disarmement expert Rebecca Johnson wrote the week of 22 April 2007 on Johnson 's Acronym Institute website that the risk of nuclear proliferation is too grave for the international community to shirk responsibilities and that the NPT has already begun to unravel .
Felicity Hill of the non - governmental organization the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) stated to AFP that the meeting could build towards a successful 2010 Review Conference but progress must occur on both non - proliferation and disarmament .
A diplomat in Vienna who closely follows the non - proliferation regime stated that expectations are being lowered for a successful outcome to the Preparatory Committee given the inauspicious international developments and the growing detritus of arms control agreements cast aside .
2007-04-30
Afghanistan ( AF )
War and conflict ; narcotics ; international
NATO - led and Afghan troops initiated Operation silicon on 30 April 2007 to clear the Taliban from the lower Sangin Valley .
Sangin valley is located in Afghanistan 's premier opium producing Helmand province and is said to be home to some Taliban leaders .
A spokesman for the British deployment to Afghanistan stated to AFP that approximately 2000 NATO - led and Afghan troops initiated Operation silicon on 30 April 2007 to clear the Taliban from the lower Sangin valley in Afghanistan 's premier opium producing Helmand province .
Operation silicon falls under Operation Achilles .
Operation Achilles is NATO 's International Security Assistance Force 's ( ISAF ) biggest campaign against the Taliban , foreign fighters and drugs barons and began in Helmand on approximately 30 February 2007 .
Achilles involves about 5500 soldiers from countries including Britain , Canada , the Netherlands and the United States as well as 1000 Afghans .
Most of Britain 's more than 5000 troops with ISAF are based in Helmand .
Sangin is 70 kilometers ( 40 miles ) northeast of provincial capital Lashkar Gah and has been the site of regular clashes with Taliban fighters said to have joined forces with drugs barons in Helmand .
Sangin produces about 40 percent of the opium from Afghanistan which supplies more than 90 percent of the world 's illegal opium .
Sangin is said to be home to some Taliban leaders including the Taliban 's military operations commander for the South Mullah Dadullah .
2007-05-04
Italy ( IT )
Narcotics ; crime ; government
2 municipal board candidates of Corleone , Sicilian were arrested for suspected drug trafficking .
8 suspects were detained in total in Corleone and Palermo as part of a drug trafficking investigation .
Palermo police said 2 municipal board candidates in the Sicilian town of Corleone were arrested on 070504 for suspected drug trafficking .
The 2 arrested candidates are Leoluca Lanza of the Christian - Democrats for Independence Party and Giovanni riina from Silvio Berlusconi 's Forza Italia party .
8 suspects were detained in total in Corleone and Palermo as part of an investigation into cocaine and hashish trafficking .
Ansa news agency reported that those arrested were accused of being involved with a criminal organization with the aim of drug trafficking .
Municipal elections are scheduled for 070513 and 070514 in Corleone .
Corleone is about 19 miles south of the Sicilian capital Palermo .
Corleone was the birthplace of major mafia bosses .
Mafia boss Luciano leggio died in 930000 .
Mafia boss Salvatore riina was arrested in 930000 and nicknamed toto .
Mafia boss Bernardo Provenzano was arrested in 060400 after 43 years on the run .
The central crime family in Mario Puzo 's seminal book The Godfather was named after the town .
In 070400 Palermo Police Chief Giuseppe Caruso told the daily La Repubblica that Corleone is no longer the stronghold of so - called godfathers .
2007-05-08
Australia ( AU )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; money ; Government ; terrorism
Australia revealed that 702 million Australian dollars have been budgeted for anti - terror measures , including protection against cyber attacks .
The Australian government revealed in the budget on May 5 , 2008 that Australia is to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to safeguard the country against terrorism .
Philip Ruddock stated that the measures announced in the budget will help create a secure and trusted operating environment that will benefit all Australians .
Some of these dollars will be used for drills to test Australia 's response to cyber attacks .
Treasurer Peter Costello set aside 702 million Australian dollars or 582 million United States dollars for national security initiatives as Australia prepares for possible reprisals in the war in Iraq as an ally of the United States .
Some of these dollars will be used for high priority intelligence needs , electronic and Internet security and further strengthening of aviation security .
These dollars increase Australia 's total additional spending commitment to national security for the 10 years to 2010-11 to 1.4 billion dollars .
The Australian government will spend 73.6 million dollars over the next 4 years to lift electronic safety for government , business and home computer users to ward off any possible electronic or cyber attacks .
The Australian Government will also boost funding to the Australian Federal Police to fund preventative detention of terror suspects and to expand counter - terror teams .
Part of a 219 million dollar allocation will go towards constructing secure facilities for counter - terrorist first response units at 11 major airports and some court buildings across Australia .
Attorney General Philip Ruddock stated that cyber attacks threaten the privacy and security of Australians online and the reliable delivery of services by both business and government .
Philip Ruddock stated that there has been an increase in recent years in the frequency and sophistication of attacks on information technology systems as millions more Australians use the Internet and other electronic communications .
This increase in attacks is the reason why the Australian government is planning exercises to improve the capacity to manage cyber attacks .
Philip Ruddock also stated that it is imperative that Australia remain one step ahead of emerging e - threats .
The Australian Government is examining the development of a business center to allow information technology security information to be shared quickly between the Government and operators of critical infrastructure .
At least 9 people are currently facing terrorism - related charges .
2007-05-11
Estonia ( EE )
International ; Government ; Telecom ; technology
Estonian government servers experienced a cyber attack in May 2007 after a disagreement with Russian officials .
Estonian officials plan to discuss the handling of cyber attacks at a meeting of member States of NATO and the European Union .
Estonian Defense Minister Jaak Aaviksoo stated on 11 May 2007 that Estonian officials will raise the handling of cyber attacks with EU defense ministers at a meeting in Brussels on 14 May 2007 .
Aaviksoo stated Estonian officials will also require a discussion with NATO member countries about how to handle malicious attacks against State websites .
The meeting will occur between partner member States of the NATO military alliance and European Union .
Aaviksoo stated it is considered an attack against the whole of NATO and the military alliance comes to help if the ports of a NATO member country are under attack .
Estonian Prime Minister andrus Ansip stated in early May 2007 that attacks had been launched against Estonian government servers which forced a temporary shut - down of the servers .
The attacks occurred after a disagreement with Russian officials over the removal of a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn .
Ansip stated that some of the cyber - attacks had come from computers in the office of Russian President Vladimir Putin .
2007-05-15
Estonia ( EE )
International ; business ; Telecom ; technology ; crime
Estonian Bank Seb Eesti uhispank 's website was temporarily shut down following a cyber attack .
The attack occurred after Estonian authorities relocated a monument to Soviet soldiers .
An official stated that on 15 May 2007 Estonia 's 2nd - biggest bank , Swedish - owned Seb Eesti uhispank , blocked access from abroad to Seb Eesti uhispank 's online banking service after a cyber attack .
Head of communications at Seb Eesti uhispank silver vohu stated massive attacks were launched at 12:00 PM against the Internet bank which blocked access to the Seb Eesti uhispank website .
Vohu stated the attacks on Seb Bank 's Internet banking service had attempted to overload the website with various requests so that normal access would fail .
Vohu stated access was restored at 2:00 pm ( 1100 GMT ) for users in Estonia but access from computers located outside Estonia will continue to be restricted for security reasons .
Vohu stated that the security of customer accounts was not compromised in the attacks .
Vohu stated the cyber attacks were the first to target the Bank Group since a series of similar assaults were launched in April 2007 against the websites of Estonian state institutions .
Estonian officials stated that some of the cyber attacks that caused Estonian government websites to shut down temporarily came from computers in the administration of Russia including in the office of President Vladimir Putin .
The cyber attacks were launched after Estonian authorities moved a monument to Soviet soldiers who fought fascism in World War II from a city block in central Tallinn to a military cemetery in a neighborhood of the capital .
The removal of the monument caused disapproval from officials in Moscow and riots in Tallinn by members of the large ethnic Russian minority that comprises approximately 1/4th of the Baltic republic 's population of 1.34 million people .
2007-05-21
Estonia ( EE ) ; Europe ; Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; Government ; Telecom ; technology
Government of Estonia rejects EU agency criticism of its handling of recent cyber attacks .
Estonian official defends restriction of access to various State websites as inevitable and calls criticism ignorant of the extent of the attacks .
On 21 May 2007 the Government of Estonia rejected European Union criticism of its handling of recent cyber attacks .
Estonia has experienced a series of cyber attacks since the end of April 2007 that have forced it to restrict access to many State websites .
Estonia is a Baltic State member of the European Union .
Hillar aarelaid is head of Estonia 's computer emergency response team cert .
Aarelaid was responding to comments made by Jacqueline McGlade .
McGlade is head of the EU agency that promotes a shared network of environmental data .
Aarelaid stated that McGlade 's assertion that Estonia should have employed basic procedures such as firewalls to defend from cyber attack demonstrated ignorance of the extent of the cyber assaults on Estonia .
Aarelaid stated to the AFP by phone on 21 May 2007 that if the solution had been as simple as using elementary firewalls that Estonia would have done it .
At a press conference in Geneva McGlade had stated that the EU agency she heads firmly believes that to react to cyber attack by closing systems down is unsound .
Estonia began barring access to key government and some private websites 3 weeks ago after the onset of a series of cyber attacks against Estonia .
Many of the attacks originated abroad .
The cyber attacks were triggered by Estonian government authorities ' decision to remove a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn .
This decision angered Russia and the large ethnic Russian minority in Estonia .
Officials in Estonia including Prime Minister andrus Ansip have claimed that some of the cyber attacks came from Russian government computers including computers in the office of Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Aarelaid stated to AFP --
Critics of Estonia 's response may not be aware that traffic on some Estonian sites was increased by 1 million .
Imposing temporary restrictions on Internet traffic from abroad was inevitable .
Mcglade 's comments on the Estonian response were made in Geneva ahead of a United Nations conference on global access to information technology .
Mcglade stated that attacks on State and private websites should be handled in a systematic way instead of by restricting access .
Mcglade stated that there are technologies that the EU agency deploys in an effort to avoid restricting access to government websites .
The EU Agency will be in contact with the Estonian Government to advise on possible defense measures .
Estonia is a world pioneer in IT solutions .
Estonia ranks higher than the 15 older EU members and just behind the United States on a World Bank list of countries that are advanced in preparing for a knowledge - based society .
Aarelaid stated --
Access to critical websites was never restricted .
Estonia is prepared to keep critical websites accessible in any situation but that during a massive cyber attack some websites like that of the Estonian Agriculture Ministry are of a lower priority to keep accessible to visitors from abroad .
2007-05-24
Estonia ( EE ) ; Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; government
European Parliament members responded to cyber attacks on Estonian websites by calling on Russian officials to assist investigations into the attacks .
The attacks are believed to have come from Russian administration IP addresses in response to the relocation of a Soviet statue in Estonia .
European Parliament members on 24 May 2007 called on Russian officials to assist investigations into cyber attacks against Estonian websites .
Estonian officials began barring access to government and some private websites on approximately 3 May 2007 after a series of attacks .
The cyber attacks were triggered by Estonian authorities ' decision to remove a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn which angered Russian officials and the large ethnic Russian minority in Estonia .
The European Parliament resolution stated the attacks have frequently originated from abroad and have come from Russian administration IP addresses .
The resolution called on the European Commission and EU member States to assist in analyzing the attacks and to investigate how attacks can be prevented in the future .
European Parliament members also condemned attempts by Russian officials to exert economic pressure on Estonian government .
2007-05-25
Republic of Korea ( KR )
Military ; technology
Republic of Korea launches its first Aegis destroyer equipped with advanced air and sea defenses .
Japanese and Chinese naval buildups and the threat from the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea have caused Republic of Korea to expand its defense and combat capabilities .
On 25 May 2007 the Republic of Korea launched its first Aegis destroyer equipped with advanced air and sea defenses .
The Republic of Korea faces Japanese and Chinese naval buildups and a potential threat from the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea .
The KDX - III destroyer weighs 7600 tons .
The navy stated that the Republic of Korea is the 5th country to have a destroyer equipped with the Aegis integrated weapons control system following the United States , Japan , Spain and Norway .
The destroyer was built domestically at a cost of 1 billion U.S. dollars .
President Roh Moo - hyun stated at a launching ceremony that the ship is armed with a state - of - the - art defense system and combat capability and is one of the world 's best destroyers .
Roh stated that Republic of Korea will move forward with a program to create an ocean - going navy .
The destroyer is named the King Sejong after the monarch who helped create the Korean alphabet in the 15th century .
The navy said in a statement --
The King Sejong has integrated capabilities in broad - range air defense , support for ground operations , automatic tracking and destruction of enemy aircraft and guided and ballistic missiles .
The new destroyer is expected to greatly increase combat capabilities .
A 2nd Aegis destroyer will be launched in 2010 and a 3rd in 2012 in what a navy spokesman stated in May 2007 was an attempt to rival the naval powers of Japan and China .
The Republic of Korea faces a potential threat from the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea around their contested maritime border in the Yellow Sea .
This week the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea accused the Republic of Korea of dispatching warships to violate its territorial waters .
6 South Koreans were killed in June 2002 in battles in the area .
In June 1999 dozens of North Korean sailors were killed in a similar battle .
The Aegis combat system was built by the U.S. firm Lockheed Martin .
The Aegis combat system allows a ship to combat multiple surface , underwater and aerial targets .
The King Sejong is also equipped with locally developed ship - to - ship missiles and torpedoes as well as various ship - to - air missiles and ship - to - surface cruise missiles .
Stealth technology was used in building the King Sejong making radar detection more difficult .
The ship will be deployed operationally in 2009 .
The Republic of Korea is cooperating with Germany to build 1800 - ton modern submarines .
A second such submarine will be launched in early June 2007 .
2007-05-29
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; United States ( US )
Weapons ; military
Russia tests new multiple warhead missile capable of penetrating air - defense systems such as the U.S. shield planned for deployment in central Europe .
In response to U.S. plans Putin states that Russia will suspend its compliance with a European conventional weapons control treaty as Russia continues working to regain military parity with the U.S. .
On 29 May 2007 Russia stated it had successfully tested a new multiple warhead ballistic missile designed to overcome air - defense systems such as the U.S. shield planned for deployment in Central Europe .
Russia 's strategic missile forces issued a statement saying that the RS - 24 rocket was fired from the northeastern Arkhangelsk region and hit its target on the Kamchatka Peninsula 6000 kilometers away .
The Kamchatka peninsula protrudes into the Pacific Ocean .
According to the statement the RS - 24 reinforces the military potential of the strategic forces to overcome anti - missile defense systems .
The test occurred amidst Russia 's diplomatic battle over U.S. plans to expand a missile defense shield into Central Europe .
The Russian Government considers the U.S. plan an attempt to gain nuclear power in the region .
First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov is a former defense minister and widely considered a potential successor to President Vladimir Putin in 2008 .
Ivanov stated that the RS - 24 could overcome any anti - missile system like that of the United States .
Ivanov was quoted by Interfax as stating that the Russian missile complexes are capable of penetrating all existing and prospective anti - missile systems .
Ivanov stated that Russians should be confident in the nation 's defense and security capabilities .
The United States states that the planned radar base in the Czech Republic and 10 interceptor missiles in neighboring Poland would defend Europe against potential threats from Iran and North Korea and pose no threat to Russia .
President Vladimir Putin disagrees and stated that Russia is suspending compliance with a European conventional weapons control treaty .
Putin warned that a new arms race is possible .
According to the statement the new rocket meets the standards of START - II missile treaties which impose restrictions on the use of multiple warhead missiles .
A spokesman for the strategic forces stated to the AFP that the missile is new but uses technologies of the Topol - M missile .
According to the statement the prototype RS - 24 rocket is unlike the Topol - M in that it is equipped with multiple independently targetable warheads to overwhelm defense systems .
The Ministry of Defense refused to reveal the characteristics of the new missile other than stating it was designed to replace the Soviet - era RS - 18 and RS - 20 rockets .
Director of the Moscow Center for Defense Information Ivan safranchuk stated --
The RS - 24 is a significant modernization of Topol - M.
The principle advantage is that the RS - 24 is a Russian rocket .
Other multiple warhead missiles that Russia utilized were built in Ukraine .
Prior to the RS - 24 there were no Russian - built multiple warhead missiles .
Military analyst Alexander golts stated that the test was part of a massive effort by the Russian government to regain parity with the United States ' strategic missile forces .
Golts stated that the principle military political aim of the current Russian leadership is to regain parity with the United States .
2007-06-07
Estonia ( EE )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; Government ; politics ; leader ; terrorism
After Estonian authorities shut down state websites after a cyber attack originating from Russian computers Estonian officials will propose that the members of the European Union consider cyber attacks as acts of terror .
At a news conference on 7 June 2007 Estonian Justice Minister rein Lang stated that Estonian officials will propose that European Union members consider cyber attacks as acts of terror at a meeting of European Union Justice Ministers on 13 June 2007 .
Lang stated that Estonian officials are inclined to view cyber attacks as acts of terror in the same way American officials view cyber attacks .
Lang stated that Lang predicts an interesting discussion on cyber attacks .
At the news conference Prime Minister andrus Ansip restated accusations that computers in the Kremlin had carried out a number of the cyber attacks launched on Estonian institutions after a disagreement with Russian officials in April 2007 regarding the removal of a Soviet war memorial from the center of Tallinn .
Ansip and Lang stated that the attacks were well organized and were a serious breach of security regardless of whether the Kremlin had knowledge of the attacks .
Ansip stated the attacks came directly from the IP address of the Russian president 's office .
Lang stated that if the computers in the Kremlin were used unintentionally then there are computers in the Russian administration which may be used for criminal attacks .
Lang stated that the attacks were an organized offensive against the information systems of the Estonian State structures and against the infrastructure of the State in general .
Officials in Moscow have denied any involvement in the cyber attacks against Estonia which forced Estonian authorities to temporarily bar access to official State websites .
Some of the attacks also targeted private interests such as banks .
2007-06-07
Saudi Arabia ( SA )
Narcotics ; crime
Drug trafficker executed in Saudi Arabia forsmuggling a large quantity of hashish ..
Saudi Arabia 's interior ministry announced that on 7 June 2007 Jari bin Mubarak bin muqim Al-Dosari was executed in Riyadh , Saudi Arabia .
A statement issued by the official SPA news agency stated that --
Al-Dosari was convicted of drug trafficking .
Al-Dosari was executed by the sword .
Al-Dosari 's crime was smuggling a large quantity of hashish in collaboration with drug trafficking gangs .
91 people have been executed by the Saudi government so far in 2007 .
According to AFP tallies based on official statements --
In 2006 at least 37 people were executed in Saudi Arabia .
In 2005 83 people were executed in Saudi Arabia .
In 2004 35 people were executed in Saudi Arabia .
Executions in Saudi Arabia are usually carried out in public .
Public executions are a strict form of sharia .
Sharia is Islamic law .
Capital offenses in Saudi Arabia include rape , murder , apostasy , armed robbery and drug trafficking .
2007-06-12
Singapore ( SG )
Narcotics ; crime
An Australian named Michael Karras skipped bail in Singapore on June 12 , 2007 after being charged with drug trafficking .
The Central Narcotics Bureau stated on June 12 , 2007 that Singaporean authorities have issued an arrest warrant for an Australian man charged with drug trafficking after skipping bail .
The warrant was issued for Michael Karras .
Michael Karras did not appear for a court appearance on May 9 , 2007 .
The lawyer of Michael Karras named S.S. Dhillon could not be reached for comment .
According to a court document Karras is charged with trafficking 437 grams or 15 ounces of cannabis and cannabis mixture .
The charge has a minimum sentence of five years of imprisonment and five strokes of the cane on conviction .
The death penalty sentence is mandatory for anyone caught trafficking more than 500 grams of cannabis .
2007-06-12
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; weapons ; Government ; military ; leader
Russian President Putin called for a freeze on Russian compliance with the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe ( CFE ) due to limitations on troop movement .
NATO member States and countries from the former Soviet bloc meet in Vienna to re - examine the CFE .
NATO member States and countries from the former Soviet bloc met in Vienna on 12 June 2007 to re - examine the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe ( CFE ) in light of tensions between Moscow and the West .
The CFE meeting was convened at the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and will last until 15 June 2007 .
The Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe was signed in Paris in 1990 and aimed at establishing defense parity in Europe .
The CFE came into force in 1992 and limits deployments of tanks and troops in countries belonging to NATO and the former Warsaw Pact in Eastern Europe .
Chief of the Russian delegation Anatoly Antonov stated in Vienna on 11 June 2007 that Russian officials called the meeting because the Russian Government is unable to freely move Russian troops on Russian territory .
Anotov referred to limitations imposed by the CFE and stated that the choice of which armed forces to deploy belongs to Russian officials .
Russian President Vladimir Putin recently threatened to suspend application of the CFE amid disagreement with the government in Washington over US plans to extend a missile shield into Central Europe .
Russian and U.S. officials have disagreed over the CFE since 1999 with NATO officials stating that Russian officials have failed to honor commitments to withdraw troops from Moldova and Georgia .
Russian officials accuse the United States of a military buildup near Russia 's borders with the US planning new army bases in Romania and Bulgaria as well as the missile shield proposal .
Antonov stated that Russian officials have serious concerns over the plans for military bases .
On 26 April 2007 Putin cited NATO 's lack of movement and called for a freeze on Russian compliance with the CFE which disconcerted Western observers .
Antonov downplayed the idea that Russian officials would pull out of the CFE altogether and stated that the dispute over the US missile shield would not be discussed at the meeting .
Antonov stated that the US plans for military bases in Romania and Bulgaria will be on the meeting 's agenda .
Antonov rejected an offer made by the US and NATO allies to the Russian Government the week of 3 June 2007 to accept a multinational peacekeeping force in the pro - Russian Moldovan separatist region of Transdniestr .
2007-06-12
Afghanistan ( AF ) ; Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR ) ; Pakistan ( PK ) ; Austria ( AT )
International ; narcotics ; crime ; government
Ministers of Public Security and Counter - narcotics from Afghanistan , Iran and Pakistan issued a joint statement reporting an agreement to strengthen joint efforts to prevent cross - border drug trafficking .
The statement includes steps to improve border management to combat the transnational threat posed by opium from Afghanistan .
Following a meeting in Vienna hosted by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime , Ministers of Public Security and Counter - narcotics from Afghanistan , Iran and Pakistan stated on 12 June 2007 that the ministers had agreed to strengthen joint efforts to prevent cross - border drug trafficking .
The ministers issued a joint statement in which the Ministers committed to act to reduce the transnational threat posed by Afghanistan 's opium which requires a cooperative solution .
The joint statement said that the ministers from Afghanistan , Iran and Pakistan agreed to take steps to improve border management including --
building more physical barriers
Boosting law enforcement capacity
launching joint counter - narcotic operations
Better communication
Increased intelligence - sharing about trafficking routes , traffickers and suspicious shipments
The ministers ' statement called on countries including Russia and countries in the European Union to which the drugs are sent to seek to curb demand .
The ministers ' statement called on States where chemicals essential for producing heroin from opium poppy are produced to stiffen procedures .
The statement said chemical precursors should be controlled first and foremost where the precursors are produced since the opium problem is best controlled at the source .
Opium from poppies grown in Afghanistan is the source of 90 percent of worldwide heroin production .
2007-06-20
Australia ( AU )
International ; Government ; terrorism ; money ; politics
A Sydney Council defended a decision on June 20 , 2007 to forge a sister - city relationship with Bethlehem despite allegations that such a relationship would be akin to supporting Hamas .
A Sydney Council defended a decision on June 20 , 2007 to forge a sister - city relationship with Bethlehem .
The Sydney Council stated that the sister - city relationship would not lead to the funneling of Australian dollars to the Islamist group Hamas .
Marrickville Council voted on June 19 , 2007 to formalize links to Bethlehem .
The New South Wales Jewish Board of Deputies stated that Bethlehem 's Council was controlled by Hamas .
Jewish groups have also stated that a sister - city relationship with Bethlehem would be akin to offering financial support to terrorism and supporting Hamas .
Multicultural marrickville 's Deputy Mayor Peter olive rejected the claims and stated that the Sydney Council would not be funding terrorism .
Peter olive also stated that Hamas does not dominate Bethlehem 's Council because 8 of the 15 councilmen are Christian and the mayor of Bethlehem is Christian and not a member of Hamas .
Peter olive stated that the sister - city relationship was designed to improve cultural understanding and denied that money would change hands .
Peter olive also stated that Sydney does not give money to other sister cities .
Hamas fighters violently seized the Palestinian territory of Gaza on June 13 , 2007 .
The New South Wales Jewish Board of Deputies member VIC alhadeff stated that Hamas practices terrorism and openly seeks the destruction of Israel .
Bethlehem is the West Bank city considered the birthplace of Christ .
2007-06-25
Afghanistan ( AF )
Narcotics ; international
The United Nations said on June 25 , 2007 that sophisticated laboratories inside Afghanistan are converting 90 percent of Afghanistan 's opium into heroin and morphine before smuggling it around the world .
The United Nations said on June 25 , 2007 that sophisticated laboratories inside Afghanistan are converting 90 percent of Afghanistan 's opium into heroin and morphine before smuggling it around the world .
The United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) said Afghanistan is the world 's biggest producer of opium and had exported the illicit drug almost exclusively in its raw form until 2 years ago .
UNODC representative Christina Oguz in Kabul said that she believes the amount of the opium being processed in Afghanistan is approximately 90 percent .
Oguz said that anyone flying over the major opium producing areas would see a lot of small fires in the mountains , which are heroin labs .
Oguz stated that a couple of years ago opium was the primary drug being trafficked out of Afghanistan .
Oguz said there has been an increase of opium being processed into morphine and into heroin and that this indicates sophistication that was not previously present in Afghanistan .
Afghanistan accounts for 92 percent of the world 's heroin supply despite vast internationally - backed efforts to eradicate its opium poppy fields .
Oguz said the annual income from the drugs trade helps finance the Taliban - led insurgency plaguing mainly southern and eastern Afghanistan and that this income totals more than three billion US dollars .
Oguz stated that the drugs have to be fought together with the insurgency .
Afghanistan produced a record 6000 tons of opium in 2006 .
Officials said that the 2007 harvest could exceed the 2006 record because of an increase in opium cultivation in the southern provinces .
Oguz said that favorable weather conditions had also contributed to the increase .
Oguz fears that Afghanistan will have at least the same amount as the 2006 harvest if not more .
Oguz also downplayed international efforts to eradicate poppy crops and said that it was more important to provide poor opium farmers with alternative livelihoods .
2007-06-27
Brazil ( BR )
Crime ; narcotics
Brazilian police surrounding slums north of Rio de Janeiro to rid them of violent drug traffickers .
At least 18 people killed during firefights between police and drug dealers .
Rio de Janeiro 's state public safety Secretary Jose Mariano Beltrame stated that --
On 27 June 2007 at least 18 people were killed during firefights between police and drug dealers .
The firefights took place in Rio de Janeiro 's notorious slums .
The goal is to eliminate to the drug traffickers ' arsenals .
Brazil must retake control of the slums and instill public order .
The casualty count of 18 was preliminary .
The casualty count included a plain - clothes police officer .
10 people were wounded during the firefights .
Beltrame did not know whether all those killed were drug traffickers or residents caught by stray bullets .
Police gained access to areas in the slums that they could not enter for decades because of the power of the traffickers .
The slums were veritable fortresses .
Police launched an offensive of 1350 officers .
The police officers surrounded the slums north of Rio de Janeiro to rid them of violent drug traffickers and seize weapons and drugs .
At a press conference Beltrame stated that 1200 local and federal police and 150 elite National Security Force police backed by three armored personnel carriers invaded the slums .
According to images on TV Globo News police used a bulldozer to topple barricades built by the traffickers .
Police cordoned off the drug traffickers ' area in the early morning of 27 June 2007 .
Firefights broke out after police cordoned off the drug traffickers ' area .
According to local media at least 4 supposed traffickers were killed by midday 27 June 2007 .
A source at Brazil 's Education Secretariat stated that --
Local businesses shuttered .
8 area schools closed affecting some 4000 pupils .
Since 2 May 2 2007 federal police have been deployed in Nueva Cruzeiro slum in the German complex to the north of Rio de Janeiro .
Brazilian drug traffickers are extremely powerful .
Brazilian drug traffickers commit crimes such as ordering murders and trafficking drugs from prison cells .
2007-07-09
Malaysia ( MY )
International ; crime ; money ; terrorism
Malaysian police chief stated that luxury cars stolen in Malaysia are being smuggled out of the country and sold to fund terrorist and criminal organizations in the first time police have linked the rampant auto theft in Malaysia to terrorism .
Most of the trafficking is conducted by sophisticated global crime groups who use Southeast Asian countries as a transit stop on the smuggling route .
On 09 July 2007 a top Malaysian police chief stated that luxury cars stolen in Malaysia are being smuggled out of the country and sold to fund terrorist and criminal organizations .
Auto theft is rampant in Malaysia and Malaysian police for the first time are linking the crime with terrorism .
Criminal Investigation Department Director Christopher Wan stated that 4907 luxury cars were stolen in Malaysia in the first 5 months of 2007 representing an 11.5 percent increase since the start of 2006 .
Wan was quoted by state news agency Bernama as stating --
Structured and sophisticated global criminal groups are responsible for most of the trafficking and smuggling of stolen vehicles .
Proceeds from such activities might be used to support and strengthen criminal or terrorist organizations with the effect of destabilizing developing nations .
Approximately 21 billion dollars worth of luxury vehicles are stolen throughout Asia , Europe , Africa and North America every year .
It is necessary to enhance information sharing between nations to fight theft .
Southeast Asian countries are used as a transit stop to smuggle stolen luxury vehicles .
Jemaah Islamiyah ( JI ) is considered the Southeast Asian wing of Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaeda network .
Ji launched a series of attacks including the Bali bombings in October 2002 which killed 202 people .
2007-07-14
Russian Federation ( RU )
Weapons ; international ; politics
Russia 's government announced withdrawal from the Conventional Forces in Europe arms control treaty in hopes that the accompanying uncertainty will pressure European regarding various military , economic , and political issues .
The Russian government announced on 070714 suspension of Russian adherence to the Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) arms control treaty .
The CFE is a key agreement that limits the deployment of forces in central and eastern Europe .
US moves to install anti - missile bases in the region were seen as a key cause of the decision .
Analysts said that it is Europe that is likely to suffer most from the decision 's consequences .
Independent defense analyst Pavel Felgenhauer said the CFE Treaty is much more important to the European countries than the US .
Felgenhauer pointed out that Russia has other problems with Europe and that this withdrawal is another factor reducing confidence and deteriorating relations especially with European countries .
Felgenhauer predicted that actual troop deployments are unlikely to change much and believed the biggest practical effect of Russia 's decision will be an end to mutual inspections and confidence - building measures governed by the Treaty .
Analysts said the hope in the Russian Government is that the uncertainty will weaken European resolve over a number of issues .
Interfax news agency cited Ivan safranchuk of the international center on defense information as saying that the situation will push Europe into a more active position on missile defense .
Europe has largely backed US plans for an anti - missile radar station in the Czech Republic and interceptor rockets in Poland .
The Russian government says the US plans threaten to upset the balance of power on the continent .
Other analysts were doubtful that attempts to pressure the EU would bear fruit .
Editor of the Moscow - based Journal Russia in global affairs Fyodor Lukyanov said the Russian government is hoping that Europe 's extreme unease over this will lead to a softening of Europe 's positions .
Lukyanov thinks the Russian government 's calculations are wrong and that a frightened Europe will join with the United States .
Lukyanov said the decision to freeze the CFE was part of a wider move by the Russian government to use newly found strength to remold the foundations of transatlantic relations and that the Russian government wants to revise the forces influencing interaction in the Euro - Atlantic area that were set when Russia was weaker .
Political analyst and director of Moscow 's Institute for globalization Boris Kagarlitsky said the Russian government also appears to be using its geopolitical strength to put pressure on Europe over business ties .
Kagarlitsky said the withdrawal from the Treaty will be seen in the West as an attempt to put pressure on a number of issues including in the economic sphere .
Disagreements over energy security and a dispute over deliveries of Polish meat have prevented Russian and European Union authorities from agreeing to a new mutual cooperation agreement .
Kagarlitsky said that at some stage the Russian government will put all of the economic issues on the table while expressing doubt whether the Russian government 's goals will be achieved .
2007-07-14
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; Government ; military
Russia withdraws from key post - cold war arms treaty limiting military deployment in Europe .
Putin demands that all NATO members sign treaty .
20070714 President Vladimir Putin signed a decree halting Russia 's participation in the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) arms control treaty .
The decree stated that Russia withdrew due to certain points of the Treaty and exceptional security circumstances .
The Russian Government stated that the suspension will take effect immediately .
The Russian Foreign Ministry stated that Russia has not suspended dialogue .
NATO spokesman James Appathurai stated that Russia 's actions were retrogressive because the NATO considers the CFE Treaty to be vital to European security and stability .
Russia has repeatedly threatened to withdraw from the treaty due to US military encroachment into former Soviet Union territory such as the planned missile defense shield in Europe .
In a state of the nation speech in 20070400 Putin stated that Russia should announce a moratorium on adherence to the CFE Treaty until all NATO countries have ratified the Treaty .
Putin appears to particularly target the Baltic states of Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania , former Soviet republics and current NATO members which are not part of the CFE Treaty .
The CFE Treaty limits the deployment of tanks and troops in NATO and former Eastern European Warsaw Pact countries and establishes confidence - building , transparency and cooperation measures between Member States .
The treaty was signed in Paris in 1990 and came into force in 1992 .
The treaty was adapted in Istanbul in 1999 following the collapse of the Warsaw Pact in order to limit deployments on a country - by - country basis .
The CFE is considered a key European post - Cold War security accord .
NATO states have refused to ratify the new pact because Russia has failed to honor commitments made in Istanbul adaptation to withdraw forces from the former Soviet republics of Georgia and Moldova .
2007-07-14
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Europe
International ; Government ; weapons ; politics ; leader
Russian President Putin signs decree suspending Russia 's application of European arms control treaty .
The Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe is a key post - Cold War security accord in Europe that limits the use of armed forces and heavy weaponry and prescribes measures aimed at cooperation between Member States .
Russian news agencies reported on 14 July 2007 that Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a decree suspending application by the Russian Federation of the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe arms control treaty and the associated international accords .
The Russian presidential press office released this information in a statement .
The Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) was signed in 1990 .
The CFE is 1 of the key post - Cold War security accords in Europe .
The CFE limits the use of armed forces and heavy weaponry and prescribes measures aimed at confidence - building , transparency and cooperation between Member States .
2007-07-16
India ( IN ) ; Myanmar ( MM ) ; United Kingdom ( GB )
International ; weapons
India plans sale to Myanmar of helicopter containing EU - made parts .
Amnesty International reveals potential violation of EU arms embargo to Myanmar .
20070716 the London - based rights group Amnesty International stated that a 19 - year - old EU arms embargo to Myanmar is threatened by an Indian plan to sell an attack helicopter with vital European - produced components to Myanmar .
The report stated that the incident highlights the necessity of stricter arm controls .
Variants of the advanced light helicopter ( alh ) contain rocket launchers from Belgium ; rockets , guns and engines from France ; brake systems from Italy ; fuel tanks and gearboxes from Britain ; self - protection equipment from a Swedish company and have received crucial design development and engine control manufacturing from German companies .
US companies also contributed equipment to the alh despite a US arms embargo to Myanmar .
Amnesty International 's report was compiled by European and international non - governmental organizations such as Saferworld , which opposes armed violence .
Saferworld Team Leader on transfer controls and small arms Roy isbister stated --
The EU embargo prohibits direct or indirect supply of military equipment for use in Myanmar .
The integrity of the arms embargo depends on its implementation and enforcement .
Amnesty International arms control researcher Helen Hughes stated that greater emphasis should be placed on end - use agreements and re - export of components from EU member states in order to avoid countries indirectly supporting blacklisted regimes which commit crimes against humanity .
Amnesty International stated --
The EU should immediately commence talks with India to prevent future sales of the alh , components or technology to India .
All future EU cooperation with India that could supply Myanmar with banned items should be discontinued .
Any future arms deals with India should prohibit the transfer of technology to Myanmar .
India does not have an arms embargo to Myanmar .
The UN has noted that Myanmar 's widespread and systematic human rights violations include summary executions , torture and recruitment of child soldiers .
2007-07-16
India ( IN ) ; Myanmar ( MM )
Military ; international ; technology ; business
Amnesty International has published a report stating that an Indian project to sell attack helicopters to Myanmar threatens a European Union arms embargo against Myanmar .
On 16 July 2007 an Amnesty International report was released stating --
A European Union arms embargo against Myanmar is under threat from an Indian project to sell attack helicopters to TK .
France , Belgium , Germany , Sweden , Italy and Britain provide parts and technology for the advanced light helicopter ( alh ) .
Sales of parts and technology by India would violate a 19 - year - old ban .
India gave no official reaction .
A senior Indian government official stated that --
It is hypothetical to say that India is breaking the embargo .
No transfer of helicopters has occurred .
An Indian defense official from the armaments production wing stated that --
The Amnesty International report put India in a difficult situation .
India wishes to do business with Myanmar .
The matter is delicate .
90 percent of the alh is European .
Transfer of the alh would be in breach of the embargo .
India must keep Myanmar in good humor .
Myanmar is a military state .
In March 2007 Myanmar decided to sell gas to China rather than India .
Myanmar 's decision was a sign of China 's growing influence in Myanmar .
An Indian government official stated that --
India continues to rely on Myanmar to disrupt the flow of cross - border separatist rebels into its revolt - hit northeastern states .
The Amnesty International report was compiled by European and international non - governmental forums .
The forums include saferworld .
Saferworld works to prevent armed violence .
The Amnesty International report suggested that --
Belgium begin immediate talks with India to prevent future sales of the alh , components or military technology to Myanmar .
All future production co - operation with India that could lead to banned items ending up in Myanmar be stopped .
Any future arms deals with India ban the transfer of technology to Myanmar .
Saferworld Team Leader on transfer controls and small arms Roy isbister stated that --
The EU embargo explicitly states that no military equipment should be supplied either directly or indirectly for use in Myanmar .
An arms embargo is purposeless if not implemented or enforced .
Amnesty International 's arms control researcher Helen Hughes stated that --
Countries that violate such restrictions could find themselves indirectly supporting a brutal regime whose violations have amounted to crimes against humanity .
The United Nations has described human rights violations in Myanmar as widespread and systematic .
Human rights violations in Myanmar include summary executions , torture and the recruitment of child soldiers .
The alh 's arsenal includes --
rocket launchers from Belgium
rockets , guns and engines from France
brake systems from Italy
fuel tanks and gearboxes from Britain
self - protection equipment from a Swedish company .
controls for the alh 's engine manufactured by German firms .
Chile , Ghana and Saudi Arabia have shown interest in acquiring the alh .
Myanmar was formerly known as Burma .
The Amnesty International report was titled Indian helicopters for Myanmar : making a mockery of the EU arms embargo ?
Myanmar has a military junta .
Myanmar has a blunt Chinese influence .
An Indian government official spoke on condition of anonymity .
Amnesty International is a rights group based in London .
The advanced light helicopter ( alh ) is made in India .
2007-07-16
Russia ( RU )
Weapons ; military
Russia will increase its missile defense by deploying the long - delayed S - 400 triumph missile system around Moscow later this month .
An air force spokesman stated on July 16 , 2007 that Russia will increase its missile defense by deploying the long - delayed S - 400 triumph missile system around Moscow later in July .
Air Force spokesman Alexander Drobyshevsky said one division and a command point will be put into combat duty at the end of the month .
This was reported by news agency Interfax .
Russia successfully tested S - 400 missiles on July 12 and 13 , 2007 .
This was immediately before the Kremlin announced its withdrawal from a key European arms control treaty .
S - 400 missiles are also known by their NATO designation SA - 21 growler .
The missiles were to first be deployed in 2001 and are designed to shoot down medium - range ballistic missiles and aircraft from as far away as 400 kilometers ( 250 miles ) .
That is twice as far as the U.S. Patriot missile .
Russia and the United States are disputing over missile defense .
Russia accused the United States of provoking a new arms race with the United States ' plans to deploy a missile shield in Central Europe .
Russia said the system is a clear threat to Russian security .
The United States said the system is not aimed at Russia .
It against potential missile threats from countries such as Iran and North Korea .
The Kremlin said on July 14 , 2007 that Russia was withdrawing from the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty which limits the deployment of arms in Europe .
2007-07-16
India ( IN ) ; Myanmar ( MM )
International ; military
Amnesty International revealed in a report published on July 16 , 2007 which stated that a European Union arms embargo against Myanmar is under threat from an Indian project to sell helicopters to Myanmar .
Amnesty International published a report on July 16 , 2007 which stated that a European Union arms embargo against Myanmar is under threat from an Indian project to sell military helicopters to Myanmar .
The report titled " Indian helicopters for Myanmar : making a mockery of the EU arms embargo ? " was compiled by European and international non - governmental organizations including saferworld .
SafeWorld 's team leader on transfer controls and small arms Roy isbister stated that the embargo explicitly states that no military equipment should be supplied directly or indirectly for use in Myanmar .
The report also identified companies in the United States that make equipment for Myanmar despite a similar arms embargo .
Roy isbister questioned the purpose of having an arms embargo without enforcement .
The report urged Belgium to begin immediate talks with India in order to prevent future weapons sale to Myanmar .
The European Union arms embargo against Myanmar has been in place for 19 years .
France , Belgium , Germany , Sweden , Italy and Britain provide parts and technology for the advanced light helicopter that India plans to sell to Myanmar .
Amnesty International stated that since the Indian - manufactured helicopter would not be operational without the components from the European Union members there is an urgent need for stricter arms controls .
Belgium supplies the rocket launchers .
France provides the rockets , guns and engines .
Italy provides the brake systems .
Britain provides fuel tanks and gearboxes .
A Swedish company provides self - protection equipment .
German companies are said to be crucial for the development of the aircraft 's design and the manufacturing of controls for the engine .
An Indian government official stated that India does not attach much credence to reports by Amnesty International .
The official also stated India does give defense hardware support to Myanmar but the equipment is not offense nor top of the line .
The official also stated that Myanmar was helping in the battle against insurgents in India 's northeast .
Another Indian official stated that the technology was for communications only and not for offensive operations .
India 's foreign and defense ministries did not comment .
Amnesty 's arms control researcher Helen Hughes stated that greater attention has to be given to the end - use agreements and the re - export of components from European Union member States .
Helen Hughes stated that without this attention the States could indirectly prop up a brutal regime which the European Union has condemned and whose violations have amounted to crimes against humanity .
Indian does not have an arms embargo against Myanmar .
Amnesty International is a London - based rights group .
Saferworld works to prevent armed violence .
Myanmar was formerly called Burma .
The United Nations has described human rights violations in Myanmar as widespread and systematic .
These human rights violations include summary executions , torture and the recruitment of child soldiers .
2007-07-20
Germany ( DE ) ; Russian Federation ( RU ) ; United States ( US )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; government
Russia announced that it will suspend participation in the Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) arms control treaty , which limits the deployment of troops and tanks in NATO and former Warsaw Pact nations .
Germany will host meetings to salvage the CFE .
On 20 January 2007 a statement from German Foreign Minister Frank - Walter Steinmeier stated that --
Berlin will host top - level meetings in October to save key European arms control treaty Conventional Forces in Europe ( CFE ) .
The meetings are urgent .
The meetings will map the way forward .
steinmeier will invite high - ranking officials to Berlin in early October 2007 to create conditions for concrete dialogue .
steinmeier has deep concern over Russia 's withdrawal from the CFE .
The CFE is a cornerstone of international arms control .
Steinmeier issued the statement after Steinmeier met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Berlin .
Last week Russia announced that it will suspend participation in the CFE .
The meetings will follow Russia 's withdrawal from the CFE .
The CFE limits the deployment of troops and tanks in NATO and former Warsaw Pact nations .
Russia 's withdrawal from the CFE took place during a dispute with the US over US plans to deploy an anti - missile system in central Europe .
Russia views the Pentagon 's plans to implement missile defense equipment near Russia an act of intimidation .
President Vladimir Putin has angrily warned that if the US proceeds Russia will point missiles at Europe .
Lavrov told Russian reporters in Berlin that --
He is hopeful Russia and the West can reach an agreement over the Treaty .
Russia wishes to preserve and strengthen the arms control program .
Russia will conduct further discussions .
There is a chance that Russia will reach an acceptable agreement with the West .
Earlier this week the Russian Defense Ministry turned down an offer by NATO for consultations on the CFE .
Russia said it was ready to discuss the situation with the United States .
Lavrov has told US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice that Russia remains open to dialogue .
Russia 's dispute with the US utilized cold war rhetoric .
2007-07-21
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iran executes a convicted murderer and a drug trafficker .
Media sources report that at least 121 people have been executed in Iran so far in 2007 .
21 July 2007 -- media reports state that Iran has hanged a convicted murderer and a drug trafficker .
The hangings were public .
The hangings took place in 2 Iranian cities .
Eternad newspaper reported that the murderer was hanged in khoramabadon the morning of 19 July 2007 .
The murderer was unnamed .
The murdered was convicted of killing a man in March 2007 .
ISNA news agency stated that drug trafficker Naeem M. was hanged on 21 July 2007 for smuggling heroin .
Naeem M. was hanged in Zabol , Sistan - Baluchestan Province .
Naeem M. smuggled 10 kilograms ( 22 pounds ) of heroin .
At least 121 executions have been carried out in Iran in 2007 .
Most executions in Iran have been by hanging .
Most executions in Iran have taken place in public .
Amnesty International has stated that at least 177 people were executed in Iran in 2006 .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , apostasy , blasphemy , serious drug trafficking , repeated sodomy , adultery , prostitution , treason and espionage .
Iran is an Islamic republic .
Zabol is a town in southeastern Iran .
Khoramabad is a city in western Iran .
2007-07-26
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya ( LY ) ; France ( FR )
proliferation ; energy ; international ; business
France was criticized over France 's plans to build a nuclear reactor in Libya while nuclear proliferation experts dismissed concerns .
On 070726 France was criticized over France 's plans to build a nuclear reactor in Libya .
Nuclear proliferation experts dismissed concerns that the French - Libyan nuclear reactor deal was tantamount to handing Moamer Kadhafi a nuclear bomb .
An official with France 's Atomic Energy Commission insisted that international safeguards imposed after Libya dissolved the Libyan military nuclear program would prevent any Libyan nuclear proliferation .
Other experts agreed with the with French Atomic Energy Commission official .
Sortir du nucleaire stated that the official reason for the Libyan nuclear reactor was a deception as the civilian and military uses of nuclear technology were indissociable .
The official reason for the Libyan nuclear reactor is to desalinate sea water .
Sortir du nucleaire stated that delivering civilian nuclear energy to Libya would amount to eventually helping Libya to acquire nuclear weapons .
Sortir du nucleaire stated that Libya is rich in oil and gas and Libya is very amply self - sufficient in energy .
Sortir du nucleaire stated that if Libya wishes to diversify Libyan power production than Libya should logically give priority to solar energy because Libya enjoys remarkable levels of sunshine all year long .
A memorandum on building the new nuclear reactor in Libya was signed as French president Nicolas Sarkozy held talks with Libyan leader Muammar Kadhafi on 070725 .
On 070724 the Libyan government freed 6 foreign medics after France and European Union officials had played a key role in the process of securing the release of the 6 foreign medics .
Greenpeace France stated that the French - Libyan nuclear reactor deal poses an enormous problem in terms of nuclear proliferation and branded the French - Libyan nuclear reactor deal as in keeping with the French policy of irresponsible export of nuclear technology .
Greenpeace pointed out that previous French Presidents had signed nuclear deals with the former Shah of Iran , with the former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and with South Africa during the apartheid era .
Frederic marillier stated that the official reason the nuclear reactor is being sold to Libya is to desalinate sea water to improve Libya 's supplies of drinking water .
Frederic marillier stated that Frederic marillier wanted to know who Iran and France thought would believe this reason for building the nuclear reactor .
Frederic marillier is in charge of Greenpeace 's energy campaign .
The French opposition Socialist Party asked if it was not a bit soon to be throwing France into Kadhafi 's arms and giving him France 's international endorsement ?
The French opposition Socialist Party stated that civilian nuclear technology can be used eventually to develop military applications .
The French Green party accused Nicolas Sarkozy of boundless cynicism rooted in the risk of striking a nuclear deal with an undemocratic state .
Simon Nisan stated that the 070726 French - Libyan nuclear reactor deal followed the signature in 060300 of a agreement for bilateral cooperation in nuclear research and technology .
Simon Nisan is a member of France 's Atomic Energy Commission and is in charge of nuclear - powered desalination projects .
The 060300 of a agreement for bilateral cooperation focuses primarily on a nuclear research centre at Tajura whose nuclear reactor was supplied by the Soviet Union in 790000 .
Tajura is near Tripoli .
Simon Nisan stated that International Atomic Energy Agency controls made it almost impossible to divert the nuclear technology to military use .
Simon Nisan stated that the International Atomic Energy Agency controls are so tight that a person does not have the right to remove fuel without the presence of International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors .
Simon Nisan stated that the material generated is low - enriched uranium and not highly - enriched uranium which is needed for nuclear bombs .
In 040000 weapons - grade uranium stored at the nuclear research centre in Tajura was removed under International Atomic Energy Agency scrutiny and was sent for recycling to Russia after Muammar Kadhafi pledged to give up weapons of mass destruction in 030000 .
Russia had originally supplied the uranium to Iran .
A diplomat in Vienna that is close with the International Atomic Energy Agency stated that the Libyan Government had had very good cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency since 030000 .
Mark Fitzpatrick in London stated that mark Fitzpatrick saw no proliferation risk for the plans to build a nuclear reactor in Libya because of the fact that Libya is still cooperating with the International Atomic Energy Agency and based on the manner in which Libya turned over and destroyed equipments .
Mark Fitzpatrick is a member of the International Institute for Strategic Studies .
Mark Fitzpatrick stated that Libya 's cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency , the Government of the United Kingdom and the United States Government has been exemplary .
Mark Fitzpatrick stated that it is important for the rest of the world to see that when a country abandons nuclear weapons programs and weapons of mass destruction that there are tangible benefits .
Mark Fitzpatrick stated that this cooperation with France is a direct result of Libya abandoning nuclear weapons programs and weapons of mass destruction .
2007-08-18
Saudi Arabia ( SA )
International ; Government ; dissent ; crime ; politics
More than 60 Saudi activists have signed a petition calling for the release of a group of reformists held in the ultra - conservative kingdom since early February 2007 .
The group is accused of funding terrorism .
More than 60 Saudi activists have signed a petition calling for the release of a group of reformists held in the ultra - conservative kingdom since early February 2007 .
The group is accused of funding terrorism .
The petition is a copy of which was obtained by AFP in Dubai .
The petition was signed by 67 activists and sent to the Justice Ministry and advisory Shura Council in Riyadh and to 2 Government - sanctioned human rights watchdogs .
The petition said the reformists had been held for longer than 6 months without a trial and that under Saudi law they should therefore be released .
Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy that has taken steps towards reform .
This includes holding male - only elections in 2005 to elect half of the members of municipal councils .
The petition stated the 7 reformists had been arrested in an undignified way and had been denied access to lawyers to be informed of the specific accusations of their detention .
The petition listed those being held as Issam basrawi , Saud al-Hashimi , Suleiman al-Rashudi , Sharif khalib , Musa al-Qarni , Abdul Rahman al-Shamiri and Abdul Aziz al-khariji .
The petition also said that the reformists should be compensated upon their release .
Writer Mohammed bin hudeijan al-Harbi told AFP in April 2007 that 3 of the reformists being held had signed a petition to King Abdullah calling for the establishment of an Islam - based constitutional monarchy .
The petition demanded the introduction of a parliament elected by all adults - men and women in Saudi Arabia .
2007-08-18
Iraq ( IQ ) ; Jordan ( JO )
International ; terrorism ; money ; politics ; crime
Interpol issues wanted notice for Saddam Hussein 's daughter Raghad for suspicion of terrorism and inciting violence .
Raghad sought refuge in Jordan , where she is protected by King Abdullah II .
On 18 August 2007 International Police Organization Interpol issued a red notice for Raghad Hussein on suspicion of terrorism .
Interpol 's red notice is not an international arrest warrant .
Interpol 's red notice is a request for foreign police forces to cooperate in finding and extraditing Raghad to Iraq .
Raghad faces charges of terrorism in Iraq .
Raghad Hussein is Saddam Hussein 's eldest daughter .
Interpol posted the red notice on Interpol 's website .
Interpol 's red notice stated that an Iraqi arrest warrant was issued accusing Raghad of terrorism and inciting crimes against life and health .
The red notice listed the name as Raghad Saddam Husayn al-Majid .
The red notice stated that Raghad is believed to have both Iraqi and Jordanian nationality .
Iraqi Interior Ministry operations director Major General Abdel Karim Khalaf stated that --
A judicial order was issued against Raghad 1 year ago by the Central Criminal Court .
The judicial order accused Raghad of funding terrorism .
Raghad is living in Amman .
Raghad 's arrest would depend on Jordanian authorities .
The order of Interpol binds on all countries are associated with Interpol .
Raghad has lived in Jordan since July 2003 .
Raghad is known by some as little Saddam .
Raghad has an aggressive temperament .
Since 2006 Raghad Hussein has been on a list of people associated with Saddam Hussein 's regime .
The new Iraqi government seeks to prosecute the people associated with Saddam Hussein 's regime for allegedly inciting violence .
The list has 41 people .
Raghad 's location at the time the notice was issued was unknown .
Raghad has publicly defended Saddam .
Sister Rana and mother Sajida have not publicly defended Saddam .
Sajida is subject to an Iraqi arrest warrant .
Interpol stated that Raghad has been the subject of a red notice since late 2006 .
Interpol stated that people with knowledge of Raghad 's location should contact local police or Interpol 's headquarters .
In Amman lawyer and member of Saddam 's former defense team Issam al-Ghazzawi stated that --
Raghad is a guest of King Abdullah II .
Iraq requested that Jordan extradite Raghad in 2006 .
At that time Jordan refused .
Jordan cannot be forced to extradite Raghad .
Interpol 's arrest warrant may not be binding .
In July 2006 Jordanian Prime Minister Maaruf Bakhit stated that --
Raghdad Hussein and family were living under the protection of King Abdullah II .
The presence of Mrs Raghad Saddam Hussein and her children in Jordan is motivated by humanitarian considerations .
Raghad is the guest of the Hashemite royal family .
In March 2003 Saddam was driven from power by a US - led invasion and fled .
Saddam was the former dictator of Iraq .
In December 2003 Saddam was captured .
On 30 December 2006 Saddam Hussein was executed .
In July 2003 US troops killed Saddam 's sons Uday and Qusay Hussein .
In July 2003 Raghad and family left Syria .
Raghad and Rana sought refuge in Jordan .
Raghad 's mother Sajida and sister Hala sought refuge in Qatar .
In 1996 Raghad and Rana 's husbands General Hussein Kamel Hassan and brother Saddam Kamel were killed in Iraq .
The men were killed after 5 years in exile in Jordan .
Raghad and Rana 's relations with Saddam , Uday and Qusay disintegrated after the men were killed .
Raghad and Rana accused Saddam , Uday and Qusay of killing the men .
Raghad and Rana helped hire a defense team for Saddam when Saddam was in U.S. custody .
Jordanian authorities stated that Raghad could not abuse the terms of asylum by making political statements .
Raghad 's supporters accuse Baghdad 's U.S. - backed government of persecuting Raghad for vengeance .
Raghad Hussein is 38 years old .
Raghad is known for being haughty and strong - willed .
Raghad is a 5 - foot - 7 Socialite with a taste for stylish clothing .
Raghad was an unlikely defender of Saddam 's legacy .
Amman is the capital of Jordan .
Interpol is headquartered in Lyon , France .
2007-08-20
Iraq ( IQ ) ; Jordan ( JO )
International ; Government ; crime ; terrorism ; money
On August 20 , 2007 Jordan ruled out any move to relinquish Saddam Hussein 's eldest daughter Raghad .
Raghad Saddam Hussein is wanted by the Iraqi government on suspicion of terrorism .
On August 20 , 2007 Jordan ruled out any move to relinquish Saddam Hussein 's eldest daughter Raghad .
Raghad Saddam Hussein is wanted by the Iraqi government on suspicion of terrorism .
Government spokesman Nasser Jawdeh told a press briefing that the issue of releasing Raghad Saddam Hussein has not been raised .
Jawdeh said Raghad Saddam Hussein 's presence in Jordan is motivated by humanitarian considerations and Raghad Saddam Hussein does not practice any political or media - related activities .
Iraq on August 18 , 2007 asked for Jordan 's cooperation to arrest Raghad Saddam Hussein after the International Police Organization Interpol issued a wanted red notice .
Iraqi Interior Ministry operations director Major General Abdel Karim Khalaf said a judicial order was issued against Raghad Saddam Hussein a year ago by the central criminal court .
The court accused Raghad Saddam Hussein of funding terrorism .
Khalaf said Raghad Saddam Hussein 's arrest would depend on Jordanian authorities because the order of Interpol binds all countries who are associated with it and Raghad Saddam Hussein is staying in Amman .
Raghad Saddam Hussein has lived in Jordan since July 2003 and since last year has been on a list of 41 people that the new Iraqi government is seeking to prosecute for allegedly inciting violence and are associated with Saddam Hussein 's regime .
Jordanian Prime Minister Maaruf Bakhit said in July 2006 that Raghdad Hussein and her family were living under the protection of King Abdullah II after Iraq issued its warrant .
2007-09-04
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Afghanistan ( AF )
International ; narcotics ; crime ; government
The Russian anti - drug agency announced a seizure of tonnes of opium and marijuana worth approximately 1.7 million United States dollars in 6 former Soviet bloc countries .
On 070904 the Russian anti - drug agency stated that a large quantity of opium and other drugs worth approximately 1.7 million United States dollars was seized in a major operation in six former Soviet bloc countries last week .
The drug seizure was unprecedented in scope and involved the countries of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation .
The Collective Security Treaty Organisation countries involved in the drug seizure were Armenia , Belarus , Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan , Russia and Tajikistan .
The Russian anti - drug agency stated that the 9.7 metric tons of drugs seized included 191 kilograms of heroin , 226 kilograms of hashish , 4.3 metric tons of opium , 4.3 metric tons of marijuana , 11 kilograms of cocaine and 26 kilograms of synthetic drugs .
The Russian anti - drug agency stated that Afghanistan participated in the joint anti - drug effort for the first time .
The drug seizure operation was conducted from 070828 until 070903 and also involved Ukraine and Poland .
The Russian anti - drug agency stated that Afghanistan is the world 's top heroin producer and the drug seizure operation was codenamed Kanal - 2007 .
During the drug seizure operation an Afghan drug trafficker was arrested in carrying 15 kilograms of heroine and 35 kilograms of cannabis .
Afghan drug trafficker was caught in Tajikistan .
Tajikistan is part of the transit route used to smuggle drugs to Russia and western Europe .
2007-09-06
Iran ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
The Fars news agency stated that Iran hanged two drug traffickers in its southern port city of Bandar Abbas on September 6 , 2007 .
It was a day after Iran executed 21 criminals in one morning .
The Fars news agency stated that Iran hanged two drug traffickers in its southern port city of Bandar Abbas on September 6 , 2007 .
It was a day after Iran executed 21 criminals in one morning .
The report said the two men were identified only as Ali D. and Karim T. and were hanged for trafficking in heroin and opium .
It did not say if the men had been hanged in prison .
Iran had hanged 17 drug traffickers in prison in its northwestern city of Mashhad on the morning of September 5 , 2007 .
Four other criminals were hanged in public in the southern city of Shiraz .
Iran has recently increased executions of rapists , drug traffickers and others deemed a public menace as part of a campaign aimed at improving security in society .
The new hangings bring the number of executions carried out in Iran so far this year to at least 191 .
The executions are often public and almost always by hanging .
That figure now exceeds the 177 people who were executed in 2006 According to Amnesty International .
Iran is the most prolific applier of the death penalty in the world after China .
2007-09-06
China ( CN )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; Government ; politics ; military
British newspapers have reported that Chinese military has hacked into British government networks .
China 's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu denies the Chinese Government 's involvement and stated the Chinese government 's willingness to cooperate with the international community during investigations into the hacking attacks .
China 's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu stated on 6 September 2007 that statements that the Chinese military has made cyber attacks on the networks of foreign Governments are groundless and irresponsible and are a result of ulterior motives .
Jiang stated that the Chinese government has opposed and prohibited any cyber crimes and has explicit laws and regulations regarding cyber crimes .
Jiang stated the Chinese government was willing to cooperate with the international community to investigate the alleged attacks but Chinese police have not received any requests from relevant countries on cooperative investigations .
Jiang 's statement responded to news reports carried by The Times and The Independent newspapers in London that Chinese computer hackers had infiltrated British government networks .
The Times quoted an unidentified British government source as stating that the Chinese government was engaged in hostile intelligence activities .
The source stated the Chinese government is focusing on electronic means to hack into systems to discover Britain 's defense and foreign policy secrets instead of using the old - fashioned methods and that the Chinese government is technologically advanced and adept at hacking .
The reports were issued after US President George W. Bush stated that a discussion of the issue of suspected Chinese cyber - attacks on the US Defense Department could occur during a meeting with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Sydney on 6 September 2007 .
The Pentagon stated on 4 September 2007 that several nations and groups had been trying to break into the US military 's computer system after the Financial Times reported China 's military had successfully hacked into the network in June 2007 .
On 4 September 2007 Jiang denied the hacking allegation .
German Chancellor Angela Merkel raised concerns during a visit to Beijing the week of 26 August 2007 after press reports stated Chinese military had conducted cyber espionage on government offices in Berlin .
2007-09-08
China ( CN ) ; France ( FR )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; Government ; politics
Chinese government refuses to comment on French allegations of Chinese involvement in cyber attacks launched on government systems in France .
The French spokesman did not directly implicate the Chinese military as unnamed officials in other countries have done following similar recent cyber attacks .
On 10 September 2007 China 's Foreign Ministry refused to respond to comments made by a top French security official that government computer systems in France had been targeted in a Chinese cyber - attack .
A Chinese Ministry spokesman stated that the Government of China did not have any information regarding the statements made by French Secretary General of National Defense Francis Delon .
On 08 September 2007 Delon stated that information systems in France had been infiltrated by groups involving China .
Delon did not directly implicate the Chinese military as unnamed officials in other countries have done .
Delon stated that the French government has indications that its information systems were the object of attacks similar to attacks that have occurred in other countries .
Delon 's comments confirmed a report published in French newspaper Le Monde .
Delon stated that the French government has proof of Chinese involvement in the cyber attacks but that this does not mean the Chinese government is involved .
Delon stated that there is no indication now that the cyber attacks were launched by the Chinese People 's Liberation Army .
Press reports in recent weeks have cited unnamed officials from the United States , Germany and Britain stating that the Chinese military had been involved in cyber attacks on their government websites .
On 06 September 2007 Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu denied involvement by China 's army in international computer espionage .
Jiang stated that allegations that the Chinese military launched cyber attacks on the networks of foreign Governments are groundless , irresponsible and the result of ulterior motives .
2007-09-11
China ( CN ) ; France ( FR )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; government
China stated on September 11 , 2007 that Chinese websites have been the subject of cyber attacks .
Multiple Western countries suspect China of conducting cyber attacks against western nations .
China stated on September 11 , 2007 that China is a frequent victim of cyber attacks .
Several Western Governments including the United States , Germany and the United Kingdom have accused China 's military of hacking the websites of Western governments .
China has consistently denied that the Chinese army was involved in international computer espionage .
Jiang Yu stated on September 4 , 2007 that cyber attack accusations against China are groundless , irresponsible and a result of ulterior motives .
The latest incident involves France and French Secretary General of National Defense Francis Delon stated on September 8 , 2007 that government information systems in France had been infiltrated in attacks involving China .
Francis Delon did not directly implicate the Chinese military or government .
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu stated that cyber hacking is a global issue .
Jiang Yu stated that China 's government has always been opposed to cyber crimes and has strict laws and regulations against cyber crimes .
2007-09-21
Syrian Arab Republic ( SY ) ; Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
International ; Government ; weapons ; technology
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency stated the governments of North Korea and Syria have strengthened missile cooperation .
The North Korean government has trained Syrian missile engineers and the Syrian Government has bartered farm products and computers for missiles from North Korea .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency stated on 21 September 2007 that the governments of North Korea and Syria have strengthened missile cooperation .
Yonhap quoted unidentified North Korea observers and stated that the cooperation is composed of a barter system and began in 1995 due to Syria 's worsening financial condition .
Yonhap stated --
Syrian missile engineers have stayed in Pyongyang to train and acquire technology .
Syria has shipped cotton , food and computers to North Korea in return for buying short - range missiles .
The United States government has accused North Korea of being a leading global proliferator of weapons of mass destruction .
North Korea is impoverished and the North Korean government has continued exporting missiles which is a major source of hard currency earnings .
Yonhap stated the North Korean government has sold approximately 100 missiles to Syria , Iran and other countries each year .
North Korea 's missile launches have heightened tensions in the region since 1997 .
In 1998 the North Korean government test - fired a long - range missile over Japan and alarmed the Japanese government .
In July 2006 the North Korean government test - fired 7 missiles including the Taepodong - 2 which in theory could reach the US west coast .
The North Korean government tested a series of short - range missiles in 2007 .
2007-09-25
Kazakhstan ( KZ )
International ; Government ; weapons ; politics ; proliferation ; economy ; leader
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev addressed the UN General Assembly regarding nuclear arms , stating that Kazakhstan has benefitted from ending its nuclear program and encouraging other nations to do the same .
On 25 September 2007 Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev stated to the UN General Assembly session that --
Kazakhstan yielded tangible economic benefits by ending Kazakhstan 's nuclear program .
Kazakhstan voluntarily renounced nuclear arms .
Kazakhstan urged other nations to renounce nuclear arms .
acquiring weapons of mass destruction is irrational .
Kazakhstan renounced Kazakhstan 's nuclear missile arsenal .
Kazakhstan dismantled the nuclear missile arsenal 's infrastructure .
For the first time in history a nation has voluntarily relinquished destructive force .
Kazakhstan has experienced an inflow of considerable investments .
The investments have become a foundation of accomplishments in global development .
Kazakhstan has consolidated Kazakhstan 's independence .
Kazakhstan has received security assurances of all nuclear - weapon States .
Other nations should follow Kazakhstan 's example .
Other nations should not waste money on the arms race .
Kazakhstan has been approached by China and the West as a potential energy source .
Pipelines are being built to connect Kazakhstan to the outside world .
Kazakhstan 's nuclear missile arsenal is the fourth largest in the world .
Kazakhstan 's Kashagan oil field may contain 38 billion barrels of oil .
13 billion of the 38 billion barrels of oil in Kazakhstan 's Kashagan oil field are considered recoverable .
Nazarbayev did not name Iran or North Korea .
2007-10-01
India ( IN )
terrorism ; money ; politics
Indian security chiefs to discuss prevention of funding terrorism through stock market investment and international remittances to India .
20071001 an anonymous senior Indian Home Ministry official engaged in anti - terrorism operations stated to AFP --
Heads of federal intelligence agencies , State police chiefs and special agents from government units will meet 20071003-20071005 in New Delhi to discuss how to prevent extremist groups from investing in India 's rapidly expanding stock market to fund terrorist attacks .
The agenda will include received inputs that finances are or could be raised in the stock markets to fund terrorism in India and elsewhere .
20070900 the Indian spy agency the Research and Analysis Wing ( RAW ) warned the national markets watchdog that individuals or groups linked to al-Qaeda could be investing in the rising stock market .
India 's benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange sensitive Index ( Sensex ) has recently experienced a series of record highs .
As of 20071001 Indian markets have reached 11.63 billion dollars in 2007 .
In the same period in 2006 the figure was 4.86 billion dollars .
The official stated --
India has an ongoing process to scan dubious investments hopes to further consolidate resources to oppose the new menace of investing to fund terrorism .
The Government seeks to determine how recent terrorist attacks in India were funded .
The Government has monitored global remittances to India to attempt to eradicate money laundering by outlawed extremist organizations .
The official stated that the Central Reserve Bank of India and the Finance Ministry would begin the process of verifying operations by 100000s of sub - agents of international remittance firms .
20071001 The Times of India stated that the Government 's financial intelligence unit has identified 800 suspicious transactions involving global remittance companies in recent months .
India permits only inbound remittances through money wire transfer services with a cap of 2500 US dollars on each transfer .
Recent terrorist attacks in India --
20070800 a series of bombs killed 42 people in Hyderabad .
20070500 a bomb attack at a mosque in Hyderabad killed 11 .
20060711 a series of bombs planted on rush - hour trains killed 186 and injured nearly 800 in India 's financial center Mumbai .
India has been engaged in a violent conflict with Islamic militants in disputed Kashmir since 1989 and faces regular attacks on security personnel in the revolt - ridden northeastern states .
2007-10-03
India ( IN )
International ; terrorism ; money ; government
The home minister of India issued an alert on October 3 , 2007 against possible terror attacks that could hinder development in India .
Home Minister Shivraj Patil of India issued an alert on October 3 , 2007 against possible terror attacks at religious sites and warned that militants could fund the attacks with counterfeit money .
Home Minister Shivraj Patil did not mention a specific threat .
A national meeting of Indian security chiefs occurred after the alert issuance on October 3 , 2007 .
Officials stated in the meeting the security chiefs discussed ways to stop extremist groups using the country 's fast rising domestic stock market to fund terrorist attacks .
Heads of federal intelligence agencies , State police chiefs and special agents from government units attended the meeting .
The meeting was 3 days long .
Officials attending the meeting stated that funding of terrorism playeda large part in the closed discussions .
The venue was guarded by heavily - armed soldiers .
Shivraj Patil stated that the extremists are likely to create mischief and violence at places where innocent people congregate in large numbers .
Shivraj Patil also stated that religious places , police and politicians can be attacked and fake currency notes may be used to fund terrorism .
On September 3 , 2007 , the Research and Analysis Wing informed India 's Market Watch Group that extremists linked to the al-Qaeda terror network might be putting money into India 's bull market .
A top intelligence official stated that various other agencies chasing ghost investors in stocks have given similar warnings .
Shivraj Patil stated that terror attacks could affect foreign investment .
Shivraj Patil also stated that because large volumes of funds are invested in development activities in India without a sense of security prevailing in the States investment is going to suffer in India .
Shivraj Patil also stated that development needs security and security needs development and for that reason police cannot lag behind .
Shivraj Patil is in charge of India 's internal security .
The Research and Analysis Wing is India 's spy agency .
Since August 2007 2 separate terrorist bombings in Hyderabad city have left a total of 53 people dead .
Hyderabad city is India 's emerging software hub .
India 's economy is growing at an annual rate of 9 % .
Only China 's economy is growing at a faster annual rate .
The high annual growth rate entices investors into all sectors .
A bull run in the Indian stock markets has led to an unprecedented Fund inflow of 11.63 billion dollars so far in 2007 .
This fund inflow exceeds the inflow of 4.86 billion dollars during the same period in 2006 .
In July 2006 a series of blasts planted on rush hour trains killed 186 commuters and injured nearly 800 in Mumbai .
Mumbai is India 's financial hub .
2007-10-04
Mauritania ( MR )
Narcotics ; money ; crime ; international
In September 2007 prosecutors charged Mohamed Ould Ahmed Salem and khattry Ould Ahmed for money laundering .
A court said the case was not valid because the prosecution had no jurisdiction to charge lawyers in a case already in the courts .
The state prosecutor stated on 4 October 2007 that an appeals court in Mauritania dropped money laundering charges brought against 2 lawyers defending a drug trafficker .
In September 2007 prosecutors charged Mohamed Ould Ahmed Salem and khattry Ould Ahmed for money laundering after Salem and Ahmed received 10000s of euros believed to have been advance payment for services in the defense of a suspected Mauritanian trafficker .
Salem and Ahmed were also accused of using criminally generated money after reportedly withdrawing from a currency exchange bureau the equivalent of 200000 euros ( 282000 dollars ) transferred by the Mauritanian businessman .
Salem denied the funds were related to the trafficking case but for a long - standing contract worth 2 million euros with the businessman for other issues .
Acting Prosecutor Ahmed Ould abdellahi stated to AFP that a court on 3 October 2007 said the case was not valid because the prosecution had no jurisdiction to charge lawyers in a case already in the courts .
30 people including Mauritanians , Moroccans , Mexicans and Senegalese were arrested after 830 kilograms ( 1830 pounds ) of cocaine was seized on a bus in the capital Nouakchott in August 2007 .
The seizure is thought to be the biggest drug haul in Mauritania 's history .
West Africa has become an increasingly important transit point for South American drugs destined for Europe .
2007-10-06
Afghanistan ( AF )
International ; Government ; crime ; narcotics
Afghan authorities raided a drugs laboratory and a customs office on 6 October 2007 .
4 tons of liquid heroin and 1 ton of hashish were seized .
Afghan authorities stated on 7 October 2007 that authorities had seized 4 tons of liquid heroin and 1 ton of hashish packed to look like a brand of instant yeast .
The finds were made separately near the border with Iran which is a main smuggling route for drugs from Afghanistan .
Deputy Interior Minister General Daud Daud told reporters in Kabul that the heroin was discovered on 6 October 2007 in the southwestern province of Farah when a drugs laboratory was raided .
Daud stated that a total of 4030 kilograms ( 8866 pounds ) of heroin and 1 ton of chemicals used to make the heroin were seized and the lab has been destroyed .
Daud stated that the find was one of the Government 's biggest .
4 men were arrested .
Daud stated that the men exported the drugs in liquid form as animal medicine to Iran .
Herat Province Governor Sayed Hussain Anwari stated that hashish was found at a customs office at the main border crossing between Afghanistan and Iran .
Officials showed journalists a shipping container holding 100s of 500 gram packets of a brand of instant yeast called hollandia .
Inside the wrapping was a 2nd covering around dark hashish that read black gold and Pak delight .
The United Nations stated in an annual drugs survey released in August 2007 that Afghanistan 's opium production in 2007 rose by approximately 1/3rd to 8200 tons annually .
Afghanistan produces 93 percent of the world 's opium used to make heroin .
The U.N. survey said most of the opium is converted to heroin within Afghanistan and the main markets for Afghanistan 's opium include Europe and Central Asia .
The U.N. survey said the cultivation of cannabis which is used to make hashish increased from 50000 hectares ( 123500 acres ) in 2006 to 70000 hectares in 2007 .
2007-10-08
Tajikistan ( TJ )
International ; weapons ; Government ; narcotics ; crime
Tajik border police said on October 8 , 2007 that the police had killed one smuggler , wounded another and seized 90 kilos ( 198 pounds ) of opium after intercepting the smugglers as the pair tried to enter from Afghanistan .
Tajik border police said on October 8 , 2007 that the police had killed 1 smuggler , wounded another and seized 90 kilos ( 198 pounds ) of opium after intercepting the smugglers as the pair tried to enter from Afghanistan .
A police spokesman told AFP that the smugglers had opened fire on officers after being told to surrender .
The wounded smuggler was arrested and police seized the opium , 2 Kalashnikov rifles and aproximately 300 bullets .
The police spokesperson stated that the smugglers were first spotted at Odinaboi .
Odinaboi is a mountain village located near the border about 230 kilometers ( 140 miles ) southeast of the capital Dushanbe .
Tajikistan 's border is 1344 kilometers ( 835 miles ) long .
Tajikistan southern border is Afghanistan .
Avaz yudlashev said the security forces were bracing for more heroin and opium smuggling from Afghanistan .
Opium production has increased in Afghanistan .
Avaz yudlashev is from Tajikistan 's anti - drug agency .
7 Afghan smugglers last month were sentenced to prison terms of between 17 and 20 years .
The sentence was punishment for smuggling a total of 335 kilos of drugs into the country in summer of last year .
A recent UN report stated that Afghanistan produces 93 percent of the world 's opium used to make heroin and Afghanistan 's opium production increased by a third to 8200 tons annually in 2007 .
Afghan authorities said on October 7 , 2007 that 4 tons of liquid heroin and 1 ton of hashish packed to look like a brand of instant yeast were seized .
The seizure was one of the largest to date .
The main markets for Afghanistan 's opium include Europe and Central Asia .
2007-10-27
Iran ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iran executed 3 drug traffickers on October 27 , 2007 .
On October 27 , 2007 Iran hanged 3 drug traffickers in the central province of Yazd .
The unidentified men were convicted of trafficking , possessing , and distributing opium .
One man was hanged in the prison of the town of ardekan and the other 2 were executed in the central prison of Yazd .
Yazd is the provincial capital .
At least 235 people have been hanged in Iran in 2007 according to a count compiled from local press reports and witnesses .
Many people are hanged in public .
In 2006 Iran hanged at least 177 people according to Amnesty International .
Capital offences in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , serious drug trafficking and adultery .
Iran has noticeably increased the number of executions in recent months as officials enforce a campaign aimed at promoting virtue and boosting security in society .
2007-10-30
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Ukraine ( UA )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; politics ; leader
Russian nationals of a group called the Eurasian Youth Union claim to have hacked and disabled the website of Ukrainian president Viktor Yushchenko .
The Eurasian Youth Union stated that the hacking was a retaliation against Ukrainian attacks on the website of the Eurasian Youth Union .
Russian nationalists claimed on October 30 , 2007 to have hacked into and disabled the official website of Ukrainian president Viktor Yushchenko in a retaliation cyber attack .
The president 's press office did not identify the suspected hackers .
A group called the Eurasian Youth Union orchestrated the attack because the website of the Eurasian Youth Union had come under attack by Ukrainian authorities .
The Eurasian Youth Union stated that President Viktor Yushchenko 's official website will not work unless Ukraine stops attacking the official website of the Eurasian youth group .
The President 's Press Office stated that the attacks against Viktor Yushchenko 's website www.President.gov.ua began on October 28 , 2007 and continued onto October 30 , 2007 .
The President 's Press Office stated that 18000 separate cyber attacks against the website were registered coming from the United Kingdom , Israel , Kazakhstan , the Russian Federation , Ukraine and the United States .
The leader of the Eurasian Youth Union is banned from Ukraine for having vandalized Ukrainian national symbols on a mountain in the west of Ukraine .
This ban occurred earlier in 2007 .
2007-10-30
Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime ; international
Iranian officials hanged convicted drug trafficker jomeh Gomshadzehi in prison in Zahedan .
Gomshadzehi 's execution is approximately the 240th hanging in Iran in 2007 .
Official news agency IRNA reported on 30 October 2007 that Iranian officials have hanged convicted drug trafficker jomeh Gomshadzehi in prison in the eastern city of Zahedan .
Gomshadzehi smuggled narcotics to Turkey and Arab States in the Gulf .
IRNA reported that Gomshadzehi killed a policeman and then escaped to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates while trafficking drugs in 2003 .
IRNA reported that police confiscated approximately 3300 kilograms ( 7260 pounds ) of opium , 84 kilograms ( 185 pounds ) of heroin and 95 kilograms ( 209 pounds ) of morphine during Gomshadzehi 's arrest .
Gomshadzehi 's execution is approximately the 240th hanging in Iran in 2007 according to an AFP count compiled from press reports .
Many hangings take place in public .
According to Amnesty International Iranian officials executed at least 177 people in 2006 .
Iranian officials have increased executions in 2007 as officials enforce a campaign purportedly aimed at promoting virtue and boosting security in society .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , serious drug trafficking and adultery .
Iran serves as a transit route for drug traffickers from Pakistan and Afghanistan to Turkey and Europe .
Many Iranian police are killed each year in clashes with gangs .
2007-11-07
Canada ( CA )
International ; terrorism ; money ; crime
A Canadian bank robber pleaded guilty on November 7 , 2007 to stealing an antique jewelry piece made for the 19th century Austrian Empress Sisi .
It was also revealed that the robber was funding Kurdish rebels in Iraq .
Canadian bank robber Gerald Blanchard plead guilty on November 7 , 2007 to stealing an antique jewelry piece made for the 19th century Austrian Empress Sisi .
Blanchard revealed that he was funding Kurdish rebels in Iraq .
Gerald Blanchard plead guilty to 16 charges for involvement in fraud and bank heists .
The court was told that Blanchard had funneled money from stolen credit cards to Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq .
According to prosecutors Blanchard and two other Canadians had traveled to Cairo , Egypt to use fraudulently obtained credit cards and debit information to obtain cash .
Blanchard and the others then sent the money to a man in England identified only as the boss .
Blanchard stated that the boss planned to use that money to finance activities of Kurdish fighters and possibly other terrorist groups .
This was in a wiretap transcript .
Government Attorney Sheilla Leinburd told AFP that Blanchard 's lawyer 's exact words were - the money went to the Kurdish freedom fighters in Iraq .
Leinburd stated that it was known that the money was used to fund terrorism .
Leinburd said British authorities know the identity of the boss but have not revealed the identity to the Canadian authorities .
Leinburd said Blanchard was sentenced to 8 years in prison for running a criminal organization .
Canadian police recovered the koechert diamond Pearl from a Winnipeg house during a raid in June 2007 .
The raid was at the cusp of a two - year investigation of a string of bank break - ins across Canada .
The koechert diamond Pearl is also called the star of Empress Sisi .
The star of Empress Sisi was stolen in June 1998 from an alarmed and secure glass display on exhibition at Castle schonbrunn in Vienna , Austria .
The exhibit had marked the centennial anniversary of the assassination of Elisabeth of Austria .
Elisabeth of Austria is better known as Empress Sisi .
Sisi ( 1837-1898 ) was the wife of Emperor Franz Joseph I and renowned for her tragic life , her beauty and ankle - length hair , a strict diet and exercise regime to maintain her 20 - inch ( 50 - centimeter ) waistline .
Sisi was also known for her series of reputed lovers .
Sisi was stabbed in the heart by a young anarchist in Geneva at age 61 .
Sisi 's last words were reportedly what happened to me ? .
Trials are pending for seven others in Blanchard 's group linked to mortgage , credit card and debit card fraud in Canada , Europe and Africa .
2007-11-09
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; Telecom ; technology ; crime ; Government ; politics
Union of rightist forces party leader Nikita Belykh stated the party 's official website was attacked by hackers .
Belykh stated a belief that the Russian presidential administration is behind the attacks that occurred ahead of parliamentary elections .
On 9 November 2007 Union of rightist forces party leader Nikita Belykh stated on a personal website that the official website of the Union of rightist forces has come under a massive Hacker attack and as a result has stopped working .
Belykh stated that the character and scale of the Hacker attack mean that the attack is part of an operation against the Union of rightist forces that is being carried out according to the plan of the Russian presidential administration .
Belykh stated the Union of rightist forces ' server was attacked from 400 locations around the world at an intensity of 5000 to 6000 connections per second .
Belykh stated the Union of rightist forces ' website located at www.sps.ru could resume functioning by 10 November 2007 .
The Union of rightist forces is a liberal opposition group which has denounced an official campaign against the Union of rightist forces ahead of parliamentary elections on 2 December 2007 .
2007-11-11
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iran has hanged a convicted drug dealer .
Iran has increased executions in recent months .
The official IRNA news angecy reported that late on 11 November 2007 Iran hanged convicted drug trafficker Nader kalbali .
Kalbali was hanged in Zahedan .
Kalbali was carrying 2 kilograms ( 4.5 pounds ) of heroin .
Iran 's Sistan - Baluchestan Province is considered a key transit point in the International Opium and heroin trade .
Sistan - Baluchestan borders Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Sistan - Baluchestan is a southeastern province .
Zahedan is the capital of Sistan - Baluchestan Province .
Amnesty International reported that at least 177 people were executed in Iran in 2006 .
At least 254 have been hanged in Iran in 2007 .
The number 254 was tabulated with an AFP count compiled from press and witness reports .
Iran has increased executions in recent months .
Iranian officials have launched a campaign aimed at promoting virtue and boosting security in society .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , serious drug trafficking and adultery .
Iran is an Islamic republic .
2007-11-24
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iran hangs two drug traffickers , bringing the total number of executions in Iran in 2007 to 269 .
State news agency IRNA reported that on 24 November 2007 Iran hanged Shamseddin darvakh gorgich and Mahmoud Shah Pashtoon .
Gorgich and Pashtoon were convicted of drug trafficking in Zahedan .
The executions were Iran 's most recent effort to increase public security .
Gorgich and Pashtoon were executed in prison .
Gorgich and Pashtoon were executed for trafficking heroin in Sistan - Baluchestan Province .
Sistan - Baluchestan lies on a major narcotics route from Afghanistan and Pakistan in southeastern Iran .
The total number of executions in Iran in 2007 is 269 .
The number of executions in Iran in 2007 was calculated by an AFP count compiled from press reports .
Many of those executed in Iran are hanged in public .
In recent months Iran has increased executions .
Iranian officials are enforcing a campaign against drug traffickers , extortionists and rapists .
Amnesty International states that Iran executed at least 177 people in 2006 .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , serious drug trafficking and adultery .
Iran is an Islamic republic .
Zahedan is a city in southeastern Iran .
2007-11-26
France ( FR ) ; China ( CN )
technology ; energy ; international ; business
French President Sarkozy responds to international concerns over Areva 's decision to deliver nuclear reactors to China .
Sarkozy states that French officials will be strategic partners with Chinese officials .
Nuclear company Areva of France announced on 26 November 2007 that Areva had agreed to deliver 2 third - generation nuclear reactors to China as part of a package of deals worth 8 billion euros ( 11.9 billion dollars ) .
Areva signed the reactors agreement with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Corporation ( cgnpc ) in a ceremony in Beijing attended by Sarkozy and Chinese President Hu Jintao .
The agreement was reached after months of expectations that China would buy 2 European pressurized water reactors ( EPRs ) from Areva .
The EPRS will be delivered by the end of 2013 and 2015 , respectively .
Areva also agreed to transfer third generation nuclear technology to cgnpc which would market the equipment in China through a joint venture .
On 27 November 2007 French President Nicolas Sarkozy stated to students at Beijing 's elite Tsinghua University that French and Chinese officials will create a joint venture in the nuclear field .
Sarkozy stated --
Sarkozy is not worried about technology transfer .
French officials would share advanced technologies with Chinese officials to form the basis of a win - win situation .
The French government is neither a customer nor a supplier but a strategic partner .
Sarkozy 's comments contrast concerns expressed by other foreigners that foreign technology may be taken by a potential Chinese partner and the foreign firm would then be denied any future profits .
The Chinese government is intent on developing Chinese technologies in many high - tech industries including aerospace and autos so as not to be reliant on foreign companies and ensure Chinese government can cut costs .
2007-11-28
Spain ( ES ) , Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; politics ; government
The Government of Spain will seek a compromise on Russia 's planned suspension of a key arms control treaty .
Russian President Vladimir Putin states that the decision to cease implementation of the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty is a response to U.S. plans to establish missile defense sites in eastern Europe and to NATO 's failure to ratify an amended version of the treaty .
A senior government official of Spain stated that the Spanish government will use informal discussions outside of meetings at the OSCE conference to seek a compromise to Russia 's threat to suspend its participation in the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty .
The Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty is considered a key arms control treaty .
The treaty limits the deployment of tanks , aircraft and other heavy weapons across the continent .
Approximately 40 foreign ministers from the 56 - nation security and democracy agency OSCE are participating in the 2 - day meeting that commences 28 November 2007 in Madrid , Spain .
Spain currently holds the rotating presidency of the OSCE .
Earlier in 2007 the Government of Russia stated that as of 12 December 2007 it would cease implementation of the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty .
Russian President Vladimir Putin states that the decision is a response to U.S. plans to establish missile defense sites in eastern Europe and to NATO 's failure to ratify an amended version of the treaty .
Spain 's Director for Foreign Affairs for Europe and North America Jose Pons stated that a meeting of high - ranking officials from nations that have signed the treaty would take place on 27 November 2007 in an effort to reach a solution .
Pons stated to reporters --
The meeting must be handled with prudence because the issue is difficult .
There have been many contacts between the most concerned countries with the United States and Russia .
There have been advances but no solution .
Last week Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos stated that there was a desire among all parties including Russia to reach an agreement on the issue .
The Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty was signed on November 19 , 1990 in Paris by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) and the Warsaw Pact .
NATO and Warsaw Pact nations were the 2 opposing blocs during the Cold War .
The treaty was amended in 1999 after the collapse of the Soviet Union .
Russia ratified the updated treaty in 2004 but the United States and other NATO members have refused to do so arguing that Moscow must first fulfill obligations to withdraw forces from Georgia and from Moldova 's separatist region of Trans - Dniester .
2007-11-28
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Kazakhstan ( KZ )
politics ; international ; weapons
Russia 's decision to suspend its participation in the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty and Kazakhstan 's bid to assume the chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe will be the focus of the upcoming annual OSCE conference .
Spain as current President will lead meetings to reach solutions .
Russia 's decision to suspend its participation in a key arms control treaty and Kazakhstan 's bid for chairmanship of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ( OSCE ) will be 2 of the major issues discussed at the OSCE conference in Madrid , Spain to occur on 29 November 2007 and 30 November 2007 .
The OSCE conference will be attended by foreign ministers of the 56 member nations .
The OSCE monitors issues regarding international security and democracy .
Earlier in 2007 the Government of Russia announced it will suspend implementation of the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty as of 12 December 2007 .
The Treaty is a key pact limiting the deployment of tanks , aircraft and other weapons across Europe .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has stated the suspension is a response to U.S. plans to establish missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic and to the deployment of U.S. and other NATO forces in former Soviet republics in Europe .
The OSCE features a rotating presidency and Spain is the current president .
Spain plans to hold a meeting outside the Conference agenda in order to reach a solution regarding Russia 's planned suspension of the treaty .
Russia and the U.S. are members of the OSCE .
Last week Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Moratinos stated that there was a desire among all parties including Russia to reach an agreement .
The 1990 treaty originally set limits on weapons for NATO and Warsaw Pact countries .
The treaty was revised in 1999 after the collapse of the Soviet Union .
To be discussed will be the role of the OSCE 's election monitoring unit following its decision earlier in November 2007 to boycott the parliamentary elections in Russia to be held on 02 December 2007 .
The OSCE 's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights ( ODIHR ) defended the decision to boycott citing Russian authorities ' delays in issuing visas and unwarranted restrictions imposed on the OSCE observation mission .
On 26 November 2007 Putin stated that the OSCE had canceled its planned vote monitoring on the recommendation of the U.S. State Department and that the aim is to discredit the elections .
Russia has denied obstructing the observers and has stated the elections will conform with Russian law .
Kazakhstan 's bid to assume the rotating chairmanship of the OSCE in 2009 is expected to be a major topic of discussion at the conference .
Kazakhstan 's bid for the OSCE chairmanship is the first bid from a former Soviet Union nation .
The Government of Kazakhstan has lobbied for the chairmanship arguing it has a stable political situation , multilateral foreign policy and strong economy distinguishing it from other former Soviet countries .
Several OSCE member States have questioned Kazakhstan 's democratic credentials .
Kazakhstan is an oil - rich country .
Head of the Assessment Risks Group in Kazakhstan 's capital Almaty is Dosym Satpayev .
Satpayev stated that Kazakhstan 's chances of winning its bid for the chairmanship were considerably reduced after its last general elections were not recognized as conforming to OSCE standards .
Kazakhstan President Nursultan Nazarbayev 's political party Nur Otan won all the seats in the parliamentary election held in August 2007 .
The choice of the OSCE chairmanship is made by consensus .
Opposition by 1 country would be enough to deny Kazakhstan the chairmanship .
British newspaper The Financial Times reported on 27 November 2007 that OSCE officials will offer Kazakhstan a deal organized by Spain under which the country would assume the rotating chairmanship in 2010 or 2011 .
OSCE spokeswoman Virginie coulloudon stated that such a deal is 1 scenario among 5 or 6 others .
Kazakhstan 's Foreign Ministry insists the country is still seeking the chairmanship for 2009 .
2007-11-30
Vietnam ( VN )
Narcotics ; crime
15 people were sentenced to death in Vietnam for drug trafficking in two different trials on November 29 , 2007 .
Court officials stated on November 30 , 2007 that 15 people have been sentenced to death in Vietnam for drugs trafficking in two different trials .
11 people including 4 women were given the death penalty in Hanoi for trafficking 440 kilograms or 968 pounds of heroin .
7 other members of the same drug trafficking ring were jailed for life and 4 received terms from 17 months to 20 years at the 11 day trial which ended on November 29 , 2007 .
The ring was found guilty of selling heroin in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City from 2000 until the arrest early in 2007 .
On November 29 , 2007 in the central province of Nghe An a court sentenced 4 people to death and jailed 3 others for life after the individuals were found guilty of trafficking heroin according to an official at the provincial court after a 2 day trial .
Vietnam gives the death penalty to anyone caught with more than 600 grams of heroin or more than 20 kilograms of opium .
78 people have been put on death row in Vietnam since the beginning of 2007 .
In 2006 Vietnam sentenced at least 71 people to death mostly for drug trafficking and murder .
Vietnam is a communist nation .
2007-12-01
Vietnam ( VN )
Narcotics ; crime
State media said on December 1 , 2007 that twelve people were sentenced to death .
A Vietnamese court found them guilty on November 30 , 2007 of trafficking more than 70 kilograms ( 154 pounds ) of heroin .
State media said on December 1 , 2007 that twelve people were sentenced to death .
A Vietnamese court found them guilty on November 30 , 2007 of trafficking more than 70 kilograms ( 154 pounds ) of heroin .
The ruling Communist Party 's daily Nhan Dan newspaper said that judges in the five - day trial in the northern province of Quang Ninh handed life prison terms to eight others .
Another nine members of the same gang were jailed for between 18 months and 30 years .
The defendants were convicted of trafficking the heroin from several northern provinces between 2005 and May 2006 .
Several of the defendants were related .
15 people were sentenced to death on November 29 , 2007 for drug trafficking in two different trials in Hanoi and the central province of Nghe An .
Another ten were jailed for life .
Possession of more than 600 grams ( 21 ounces ) of heroin or more than 20 kilograms ( 44 pounds ) of opium is punishable by death in Vietnam .
At least 90 people have been sentenced to death since the start of 2007 according to figures compiled by AFP from officials and state media .
The death sentences were mostly for drug trafficking and murder .
2007-12-02
Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iran officials hanged 2 convicted drug traffickers and 1 convicted rapist in public in Qom on 2 December 2007 .
A large number of recent executions in Iran have been in public .
State news agency IRNA reported that Iranian officials publicly hanged 2 convicted drug traffickers and 1 convicted rapist in the clerical city of Qom on 2 December 2007 .
The drug traffickers were identified as Yahya Madadi and atollah poolzehi and were hanged for trafficking more than 100 kilograms ( 220 pounds ) of heroin .
The rapist was identified as Hossein safarlou and had also been convicted of drug trafficking .
Police Force Commander of Qom province Rahim Khorshid stated to the crowd during the hangings that the police are serious in the policy of decisively combating thugs and drug traffickers .
According to an AFP count compiled from press reports the hangings bring the total number of executions in Iran in 2007 to 273 .
Executions have increased in Iran in 2007 as officials enforce a campaign against what the authorities call thugs such as drug - traffickers , extortionists and rapists .
Iran officials executed at least 177 people in 2006 According to Amnesty International .
A large number of the executions have been public including the hanging of 2 killers in Tehran city center .
The public executions served as warnings by the authorities of the seriousness of the campaign against criminals .
Iran is the most prolific applier of the death penalty in the world after China .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , drug trafficking and adultery .
2007-12-04
France ( FR ) ; Algeria ( DZ )
International ; Government ; energy ; politics ; money ; business
French President tours Algeria to sign billions of dollars in oil and gas deals and a nuclear accord .
Sarkozy calls colonialist occupation unjust but refrains from apologizing for atrocities .
On 04 December 2007 on day 2 of a state visit to Algeria by French President Nicolas Sarkozy the Governments of France and Algeria signed billions of dollars of oil and gas deals and a nuclear accord .
One of the purposes of the visit was an effort to address damage done to Algeria by French colonialist conquest and occupation .
On the tour Sarkozy promoted a new economic partnership with the energy - rich North African nation and underscored historic tensions between France and its former colony Algeria .
On 03 December 2007 Sarkozy was applauded at an Algiers business forum for a speech denouncing colonialism as unjust .
Sarkozy did not apologize for the atrocities committed by French troops and settlers during Algeria 's 1954-1962 war of independence .
Following a visit to the World Heritage archaeological site of Tipaza west of Algiers Sarkozy 's delegation held meetings in which contracts worth approximately 5 billion U.S. dollars were finalized .
Algerian and French officials signed a wide - ranging accord on civil nuclear energy that addresses the use and development of nuclear energy for peaceful ends .
The civil nuclear energy accord is described by a French source as the first between the Government of France and an Arab - Muslim country .
The deal addresses research , technology transfers and electricity production , as well as prospecting and digging for uranium .
Among the myriad gas and oil accords French oil company Total signed a deal to invest 1.5 billion U.S. dollars ( 1 billion euro ) in a new petrochemical plant in Algeria .
According to the deal total in partnership with Algeria 's Sonatrach will develop a plant at the port of Arzan west of the Algiers at a total estimated cost of 3 billion U.S. dollars .
Gaz de France ( GDF ) stated that it extended its existing gas contracts with Sonatrach from 2013 to 2019 in a deal worth approximately 2.5 billion euro per year at current market prices .
As head of a consortium that includes the Egyptian firm Orascom the company Alstom finalized a deal with Algeria for a combined cycle gas turbine power plant to be built in the western Terga region .
France ruled Algeria from 1830 to 1962 .
Algeria became 1 of France 's proudest possessions .
France populated Algeria with 10s of 1000s of settlers .
Algeria is the second biggest country in Africa .
The Government of France and its former colony have maintained an uneasy relationship since 1962 .
45 years later plans for a friendship treaty remain stalled over France 's refusal to apologize for past events .
In his speech on 03 December 200 Sarkozy stated that the colonial system was profoundly unjust and contrary to the 3 founding words of the French Republic which are freedom , equality and brotherhood .
Sarkozy stated that within that system there were many men and women who loved Algeria before they were forced to leave it .
Algerian Interior Minister Yazid Zerhouni stated that while Sarkozy 's remarks were a sign of progress they were not sufficient .
During a state lunch with Sarkozy the Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika was more positive .
Bouteflika called Sarkozy Mr. President and dear friend .
Bouteflika stated that this visit would allow Algeria and France to overcome problems in the relationship .
Bouteflika stressed the potential for scientific , technological and economic cooperation between France and Algeria stating that both countries had a duty to promote an exchange of people , ideas and wealth .
Bouteflika stated that the estimated 3 million Algerian migrants and their French - born descendants should serve as a bridge between the 2 countries .
2007-11-29
Myanmar ( MM )
International ; Government ; narcotics ; crime
Authorities in Myanmar raided 3 poppy fields and arrested 8 opium poppy farmers during government efforts to reduce opium production on Myanmar .
State media in Myanmar stated security forces arrested 8 opium farmers during raids in poppy fields in eastern Myanmar on 29 November 2007 .
New Light of Myanmar newspaper stated --
Police and soldiers raided 3 poppy fields in Eastern Shan State which is part of the Golden Triangle region on the borders of Myanmar , Laos and Thailand .
The Golden Triangle region was 1 of the world 's biggest producers of opium .
The authorities had already destroyed approximately 70 of the 140 acres ( 57 hectares ) planted with poppies and plans are under way to destroy the remaining poppy fields .
Myanmar is the 2nd largest opium producer in the world after Afghanistan .
The UN Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) stated that in 2006 opium production jumped by 46 percent after years of sharp declines .
Myanmar government has stated Myanmar will become opium - free by 2014 .
The UNODC stated Myanmar 's production has fallen behind Afghanistan in recent years and now accounts for only 6 percent of the world opium market , compared to 63 percent in 1998 .
The UNODC stated Thailand has been opium free for 20 years while Laos has slashed opium production by 94 percent since 1997 .
2007-12-11
Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
Narcotics ; crime
Iranian authorities hanged 4 convicted drug traffickers in Bojnourd .
Iran is the most prolific applier of the death penalty in the world after China .
State television reported Iranian authorities hanged 4 convicted drug traffickers in the northeastern city of Bojnourd on 11 December 2007 .
The channel stated the 4 were also guilty of alcohol - related crimes and illegal sexual relations .
1 convict was hanged in public .
The channel showed still images of the hanging of 1 convict from a crane in front of large crowds .
The channel broadcast an image of the 3 other criminals hanging from a frame in a prison yard .
An AFP count compiled from Iranian press reports show the executions bring the number of people hanged in Iran in 2007 to approximately 284 .
Many of the people executed are hanged in public .
Amnesty International stated Iranian authorities executed approximately 177 people in 2006 .
The Islamic republic is the most prolific applier of the death penalty in the world after China .
Capital offenses in Iran include murder , rape , armed robbery , serious drug trafficking and adultery .
Executions have increased noticeably in 2007 as officials enforce a campaign against what authorities call thugs such as drug - traffickers , extortionists and rapists .
2007-12-19
Russia ( RU ) ; Libya ( LY )
energy ; international
Russia offered to help Libya on December 19 , 2007 in its pursuit of nuclear energy and announced a visit to Libya this weekend by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov .
A report said that Russia offered to help Libya on December 19 , 2007 in its pursuit of nuclear energy and announced a visit to Libya this weekend by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov .
Foreign Ministry Spokesman Mikhail Kamynin said that Russia is ready to help Libya realize its enduring right to attain civilian nuclear energy .
This is according to the RIA Novosti news agency .
Kamynin said Lavrov would visit Libya for two days and would meet Kamynin 's Libyan counterpart abdelrahaman Shalgham for discussions on a range of issues .
The spokesman said there will be an exchange of opinions on topical international and regional matters based on a joint working relationship at the heart of the U.N.
Libya was one of five new members elected in October 2007 as non - permanent members of the U.N. Security Council for 2008 and 2009 .
Kamynin said Russia recognizes the participation of Libya in the work of the U.N. Security Council .
It brings a contribution to the reinforcement of the non - proliferation regime and the maintenance of peace in Africa .
The spokesman said Russia is ready to cooperate tightly with Libya at the heart of the U.N. Security Council .
Russia and Libya have shared policies towards a majority of international problems .
Libya was accused of seeking to acquire weapons of mass destruction by Western governments .
Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi renounced in late 2003 all attempts to develop a non - conventional arsenal .
Kadhafi initiated the lifting of western sanctions and the restoration of diplomatic relations .
Russia is not the first European power to show it is keen to promote its nuclear technology in Libya as foreign companies engage in fierce competition to make a profit in Libya after its 20 years of isolation .
France announced in early December 2007 plans to sell nuclear reactors to Libya .
President Nicolas Sarkozy welcomed Kadhafi for a five - day visit to Paris .
The visit drew protests from rights groups and senior politicians .
They accused Sarkozy of betraying the human rights cause by bestowing international respectability on Kadhafi 's Libya .
Kadhafi has reconciled with the West after renouncing terrorism .
Libya was implicated in the 1988 bombing of a PanAm airliner over the Scottish town of Lockerbie and of a French passenger jet over Niger .
The United States agreed to the nuclear energy deal between France and Libya .
The United States said it expected Libya to respect its decision to renounce weapons of mass destruction .
The United States announced in 2006 a full normalization of ties and lifted Libya from a State Department list of state sponsors of terrorism and raising diplomatic relations to the level of ambassadors .
Russia on December 17 , 2007 started nuclear fuel deliveries to Iran 's first atomic power station .
Teheran defied international pressure by announcing plans to produce more fuel for its nuclear program .
Russia 's announcement that fuel had been sent to the unfinished Bushehr power station marked progression for Iran 's nuclear ambitions .
Western and Israeli governments fear that it masks a secret bomb - making project .
2007-12-19
Russia offers to help Libya in pursuit of nuclear energy
energy ; international ; politics
Russia has offered to help Libya in its pursuit of nuclear energy .
A visit to Libya by the Russian foreign minister was announced .
A report said Russia offered on 071219 to help Libya in the pursuit of nuclear energy and announced a visit to Libya this weekend by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov .
Russian foreign ministry spokesman Mikhail Kamynin said the Russians are ready to help Libya realize civilian nuclear energy .
Kamynin said Lavrov would visit Libya for 2 days starting from 071223 and would meet Libyan Foreign Minister abdelrahaman Shalgham for discussions on a range of issues .
kamynin said there will be an exchange of opinions on topical international and regional matters based on a joint working relationship at the heart of the UN .
Kamynin said the Russian government salutes the participation of Libya in the work of the UN Security Council and that Libya brings a contribution to the reinforcement of the non - proliferation regime and the maintenance of peace in Africa .
Libya was 1 of 5 new members elected in 071000 as non - permanent members of the UN Security Council for 080000 and 090000 .
Kamynin said the Russian government is ready to cooperate tightly with Libya at the heart of the UN Security Council and maintain shared policies towards a majority of international problems .
Libya was long accused by Western governments of seeking to acquire weapons of mass destruction .
In late 030000 Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi renounced all attempts to develop a non - conventional arsenal and thus cleared the way for the lifting of western sanctions and the restoration of diplomatic relations .
Russia is not the first European power to show interest in promoting nuclear knowledge in Libya as foreign companies engage in fierce competition to make a profit in Libya after the north African country 's 20 years of isolation .
France earlier in 071200 announced plans to sell nuclear reactors to Libya and President Nicolas Sarkozy welcomed Kadhafi for a 5 - day visit to Paris .
The visit drew fierce protests from rights groups as well as senior politicians who accused Sarkozy of betraying the human rights cause by bestowing international respectability on Kadhafi 's Libya .
The United States showed approval of the nuclear energy deal between France and Libya by saying it expected Libya to respect the decision to renounce weapons of mass destruction .
Kadhafi has patched up relations with Western nations after renouncing terrorism .
Libya was implicated in the 880000 bombing of a PanAm airliner over the Scottish town of Lockerbie and of a French passenger jet over Niger .
The United States in 060000 announced a full normalization of ties and lifted Libya from a State Department list of state sponsors of terrorism while raising diplomatic relations to the level of ambassador .
2007-12-23
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya ( LY ) ; Russian Federation ( RU )
energy ; international ; politics
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov engaged in talks with Libyan Foreign Minister Abdelrahman Shalgham on the development of a nuclear energy program in Tripoli .
Russian officials stated that Russia was ready to help Libya realize the right to attain civil nuclear energy .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov arrived in Libya on 23 December 2007 for talks with Libyan Foreign Minister Abdelrahman Shalgham on the development of a nuclear energy program in Tripoli .
Shalgham met Lavrov at maatiga military airport outside Tripoli at the start of the trip .
A Libyan official stated Lavrov was due to meet Prime Minister Baghdadi Mahmudi .
Russian officials announced Lavrov 's visit and stated on 19 December 2007 that Russia was ready to help Libya realize the right to attain civil nuclear energy .
A Russian government spokesman stated on 19 December 2007 that Lavrov would hold discussions on a range of international and regional issues .
The Libyan government renounced efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction in 2003 to repair troubled relations with the West .
The Russian government and foreign companies are competing to profit from nuclear knowledge in Libya after Libya 's isolation since 1987 ended .
The French government in December 2007 announced plans to sell nuclear reactors to Libya and President Nicolas Sarkozy welcomed Kadhafi for a 5 - day visit to Paris .
Human rights groups protested Kadhafi 's visit and senior politicians stated Sarkozy was bestowing international respectability on Libya .
2007-12-28
Vietnam ( VN )
International ; narcotics ; crime ; government
Vietnam has sentenced 43 drug smugglers to receive the death penalty from 071128 until 071228 .
A Vietnam court official stated on 071228 that Vietnam has sentenced 8 heroin traffickers and has raised total number drug smugglers to receive the death penalty to 43 people from 071128 until 071228 .
A Hanoi People 's Court Clerk stated to the Agence France - Presse that the Hanoi People 's Court jailed 29 other people in the most recent mass trial for trafficking heroin across Vietnam 's mountainous northern region for over two years .
A Hanoi People 's Court Clerk stated to the Agence France - Presse that 18 of the 29 people jailed in the most recent mass trial received life sentences .
During the most recent mass trial in Hanoi People 's Court it was stated that the drug smuggling gang worked on a common drug trafficking route to smuggle the heroin from the northwestern Son La Province near the Lao border to the capital Hanoi , the port of Haiphong and to Ho Chi Minh City .
Since late 071100 the Vietnamese Courts have sentenced at least 43 people to death and jailed scores more in several group trials against heroin smuggling syndicates , extended family and clan networks .
Vietnam 's police stated that the Vietnamese police have uncovered more than 8200 drug trafficking cases involving 12500 offenders in 070000 .
The Vietnam News Agency reported that the Ministry of Public Security stated that foreigners involved in drug trafficking cases in Vietnam came mostly from Laos , Cambodia , Australia , China , the United States and Taiwan .
The Vietnam News Agency reported that the Ministry of Public Security stated that police admitted that drug trafficking into Vietnam is increasing but actions to prevent and stop the drug trafficking along the borders remained limited .
Vietnam 's mountainous northwest region accounted for almost half of the confiscated heroin in Vietnam while the Chinese border area was identified as another highly active drug smuggling region in Vietnam .
Experts stated that heroin is the most popular illegal drug in Vietnam and heroin is the leading cause of HIV infections because heroin is often injected with shared needles .
Experts stated that most heroin in Vietnam comes from the Golden Triangle of countries that includes Myanmar and Laos .
Communist Vietnam and most Asian countries impose harsh penalties for drug smugglers .
People caught with over 600 grammes of heroin or 20 kilogrammes of opium in Vietnam are sentenced to death by firing squad .
Opium is the raw material used to make heroin .
Vietnam has a centuries - old history of opium use and the cultivation of opium was vastly expanded under French colonial rule . during the Vietnam War the heroin that travels from the nearby Golden Triangle to Western markets rose sharply .
The post - Vietnam War Vietnamese government mostly eradicated large - scale opium cultivation and in 040000 estimated that little more than 30 hectares of opium poppy fields remained in Vietnam .
The opium poppy fields remained in 040000 in Vietnam were mostly grown by remote and poor ethnic minority villagers .
Experts stated that Vietnam 's proximity to Myanmar and Laos and Vietnam 's porous borders and long coastline have made Vietnam a major drug transit country .
Myanmar and Laos are still the second and third largest opium producers after Afghanistan .
Domestic drug abuse in Vietnam has risen sharply since the decade of 900000 .
The United Nation 's office for drugs and crime control stated that domestic drug abuse in Vietnam has risen sharply especially in the cities where heroin continues to be the preferred drug among younger drug abusers .
In a 050000 report the United Nation 's office for Drugs and Crime control stated that opium smoking had long given way to heroin smoking and increasingly heroin injection in Vietnam .
Heroin injection currently causes approximately 60 percent of known HIV infections in Vietnam .
The state - run English language Vietnam News daily reported on 071228 that in the Vietnamese - Lao border province of Dien Bien the authorities have recently launched a major campaign against the rise in heroin smuggling activity .
Villagers in Dien Bien province had been asked to sign pledges not to grow opium poppy , not to use opium , and not to help smugglers carry or sell drugs .
The state - run English language Vietnam News daily reported that drug traffickers had become more sophisticated and dangerous and that some drug traffickers were ready to attack police with firearms and grenades .
2007-12-28
Vietnam ( VN )
Narcotics ; crime
8 sentenced to death and 18 for life in prison for trafficking heroin in Vietnam .
On 28 December 2007 a Vietnamese court official stated that Vietnam has sentenced 8 heroin traffickers to death .
Now more than 40 drug traffickers have received the death penalty in Vietnam over the last month .
Heroin is the most used illegal drug in Vietnam
Most heroin in Vietnam is from Golden Triangle countries Myanmar and Laos .
Heroin in Vietnam is most often injected with shared needles .
Heroin is the leading cause of HIV infections in Vietnam .
The Hanoi People 's Court imprisoned 29 other heroin traffickers .
18 were imprisoned for life .
A court clerk stated that the 29 were imprisoned for trafficking approximately 19 kilograms ( 42 pounds ) of heroin across Vietnam 's mountainous north over 2 years .
The court heard that --
The gang utilized a common trafficking route .
The gang had smuggled heroin from Son La Province and sold it in Hanoi and Haiphong .
Vietnam imposes harsh penalties for drug smugglers .
Most Asian countries impose harsh penalties for drug smugglers .
Smugglers apprehended with more than 600 grams of heroin or 20 kilograms of opium are sentenced to death by firing squad .
Since late November 2007 Vietnamese Courts have sentenced at least 43 people to death and jailed many others .
The sentences were made in several group trials against heroin smuggling syndicates .
The syndicates are often extended family and clan networks .
Vietnam is Communist .
Hanoi is the capital of Vietnam .
Haiphong is a port city in Vietnam .
Opium is the raw material of heroin .
Son La Province is located in the northwestern highlands of Vietnam near the Laos border .
2007-12-26
Jordan ( JO ) ; United States ( US )
energy ; politics
In September 2007 Jordan signed an accord with the United States aimed at supporting the peaceful development of the Jordan 's nascent nuclear program .
In December Jordan 's King Abdullah II appointed a new top energy official .
On 26 December 2007 Jordan 's state Petra news agency stated --
Jordanian King Abdullah II appointed a new top energy official .
The energy official was appointed amid Jordan 's heightened plans for a peaceful nuclear program .
A royal decree appointed Farouk Al-Hiyari as Secretary General for the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Wealth .
Al-Hiyari previously headed the Directorate of industrial energy at the ministry .
In September 2007 the United States signed an accord with Jordan aimed at supporting the peaceful development of jodran 's new nuclear program .
Under the accord the U.S. agreed to help Jordan develop requirements for appropriate power reactors , fuel service arrangements , civilian training , nuclear safety , and energy technology .
Earlier in 2007 Abdullah announced that --
Abdullah intended to develop a peaceful nuclear program .
alternative energy sources were needed to generate electricity and desalinate water in Jordan .
Jordan has signed the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty .
Jordan has long called for a Middle East free of weapons of mass destruction .
Jordan is the United States ' Mideast ally .
Jordan is oil - poor .
2007-03-04
China ( CN ) ; Taiwan ( TW )
International ; military ; economy ; weapons
China 's military budget has grown in recent years leading some to believe that China is attempting to achieve global dominance .
Mainland Affairs Council Chairman and Taiwan 's top China policy planner Joseph Wu stated on March 4 , 2007 that China 's substantial military budget increase of 17.8 percent reveals an attempt at achieving global dominance .
Joseph Wu made his statement after China made public the Chinese draft budget bill for 2007 .
Joseph Wu stated that China is attempting to achieve global dominance because the significant budget increase , the lack of transparency in military buildup , the rapid expansion of air and naval forces , and progress in space defense technology suggests an attempt at global dominance .
Joseph Wu stated that China 's annual military spending has experienced double - digit growth since 1993 .
Joseph Wu also stated that growth in China 's military expenditure is not expected to slow down in the foreseeable future but will instead accelerate and become a long - term trend .
Joseph Wu stated that China 's continued military budget growth deserves global attention and concern because there is no apparent threat and no potential future threat to China 's security in sight .
Joseph Wu stated that China 's threat to Taiwan and other neighboring Asia - Pacific countries is rising .
Joseph Wu and Western military experts stated that China 's actual military budget is about 3 times the officially declared figure .
Joseph Wu stated that Taiwan 's plan to procure 3 expensive weaponry systems , 8 diesel - electric submarines , 6 Patriot PAC III anti - missile batteries and a squadron of 12 P - 3 C anti - submarine aircraft is aimed at strengthening the defense capability of Taiwan in light of China 's military buildup .
2007-01-23
China ( CN )
International ; military ; weapons ; space ; technology ; government
China confirmed on January 23 , 2007 after 12 days of silence that China had fired a guided missile into space to destroy one of its satellites .
The test caused protests from the United States and other nations .
China confirmed on January 23 , 2007 after 12 days of silence that China had fired a guided missile into space to destroy one of its satellites .
The test caused protests from the United States and other nations .
Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao said the United States and other Governments have now been informed about the secret test through diplomatic channels .
Liu Jianchao stated that the use of anti - satellite technology does not mean China has abandoned its long - standing opposition to the military use of space .
Liu Jianchao said at a ministry briefing that the test was not targeted against any country and does not pose a threat to any country .
Liu Jianchao said that no plans for another such test by the secretive Chinese military .
The Chinese test shot destroyed an overage weather satellite 537 miles above Earth and was detected by U.S. monitors January 11 , 2007 .
The Chinese government refused to discuss it .
The test raised concern in the United States .
Officials and analysts interpreted it as a signal that U.S. military satellites could be vulnerable to attack by China .
China 's ability to shoot down satellites could pose an added threat in the event of hostilities over Taiwan because the U.S. military relies on satellites for reconnaissance , navigation , weapons guidance systems and anti - missile defenses .
China 's newly demonstrated ability could threaten Taiwanese satellites monitoring Chinese short - and medium - range missile deployments along the Taiwan Strait .
U.S. officials were dismayed by the Chinese test because the United States and Russia have abstained from such tests after testing anti - satellite technology in the 1980s .
This decision was partly because destroying satellites creates debris that could damage satellites in nearby orbits .
Liu declined to address questions on this danger .
Experts estimate that several hundred thousand debris fragments were created by the destruction of the satellite .
The satellite orbited in a section of space where 125 other satellites fly .
China has started an accelerated military modernization program and has repeatedly stated its desire to be able to compete in 21st - century warfare .
This includes the use of advanced electronics and information systems .
The Chinese military runs China 's space program and has identified space - based communications and sensing systems as key to such efforts .
Some Chinese military theorists have advocated asymmetrical warfare .
Pinpoint weapons would be used to disrupt the more advanced and better - equipped U.S. military .
Analysts believed that the January 11 , 2007 test was part of the military modernization program despite China 's frequent declarations that it wants to prevent an arms race in space .
Liu repeated the long - standing Chinese position when asked about the appearance of a contradiction and said China will further promote de - weaponization and the peaceful use of outer space .
China has consistently advocated at the United Nations for the peaceful development of space and pushed for an international agreement to prevent it from becoming the theater for a new arms race .
The United States has opposed China 's suggestion for an international conference to pursue such an accord and argued there is no need for it .
Liu was asked whether the anti - satellite test violated the spirit of China 's proclaimed position and why China kept silent for nearly two weeks while officials around the world were discussing it on the basis of U.S. intelligence reports .
Liu said China has nothing to hide .
China made the response about the test quickly after the relevant parties expressed their concerns .
China stressed that opposition of weaponization and an arms race in outer space .
China 's position has not changed .
2007-02-02
Saudi Arabia ( SA )
International ; terrorism ; money ; crime ; human rights ; Government ; politics
The interior ministry said Saudi police have arrested 10 men and accused them of collecting donations to fund terrorist acts outside the Kingdom .
A lawyer and a prominent dissident said that at least seven of the men were Saudi democracy activists whose arrest was a government attempt to abort their civic rights work .
The interior ministry said Saudi police have arrested 10 men and accused them of collecting donations to fund terrorist acts outside the Kingdom .
A lawyer and a prominent dissident said that at least seven of the men were Saudi democracy activists whose arrest was a government attempt to abort their civic rights work .
Matrouk al-Faleh said the seven men had been waiting for government approval to set up a civic rights group .
The men were mostly of them lawyers and professors .
Al-Faleh was jailed in 2004 for calling for more democracy in the kingdom .
The men had planned to present authorities with a list of more than 40 prisoners without legal representation whom they intended to defend .
Al-Faleh said the terrorist allegation is a cover - up and that it was used to get al-Faleh arrested .
This is an attempt to abort the civic rights work the authorities were planning .
Police went to the Jiddah beach house of lawyer Essam basrawi on Friday night and arrested basrawi and five other Saudi men .
Bassim Alim said Saudi businessman Abdul - Aziz Al-khereiji was arrested at a checkpoint as Al-khereiji drove with his wife to Jiddah .
Alim is the attorney who represents four of the detainees .
Basrawi 's Moroccan personal assistant also was detained .
There was no information on the identities of the two other men .
An interior ministry spokesman told local newspapers that the arrested men had been involved in financing recruiters who sign up young Saudis to go into turbulent areas .
That is generally a reference to Iraq .
The spokesman said sizable amounts of cash had been found during searches of the men 's homes .
Many young Saudi radicals have crossed the long and porous border between the Kingdom and Iraq and joined up with Sunni Muslim insurgents there .
Alim said that the government 's accusations were baseless and that his clients were well - known reformists with no connection to terrorism .
Alim said the men might have been raising funds for Palestinian or Iraqi refugees .
The men had been warned repeatedly by the government not to gather or write petitions because authorities feared the rise of a new political reform movement .
Alim said the men do not want any kind of organized reform movement .
The men are trying to stop any organized calls for reform .
Alim said police had illegally searched the men 's homes without warrants and seized files , books and computers .
This was after midnight on February 2 , 2002 .
Neither Alim nor family members have been allowed to see the arrested men .
Faleh did not know why they were not allowed lawyers or charged publicly or shown proof or evidence if they are guilty of the crime .
The arrests were the first to target democracy activists since reform - minded King Abdullah took the throne in 2005 and pardoned Faleh and two other leading activists who had spent 18 months in prison .
A dozen other men arrested with them in March 2004 signed statements pledging to stop lobbying for political freedoms .
Faleh and the two others refused to sign and demanded legal representation and a public trial .
Legal Defense and public trials are allowed under Saudi law but rarely applied .
Most defendants go to court without attorneys .
Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy and has a consultative council appointed by the government .
It carried out limited municipal elections in 2005 .
The Kingdom continues to show little tolerance for political opposition despite slow progression toward reform from Abdullah .
It imposes strict limits on freedom of expression and bans public gatherings and political parties .
Sulaiman Al-Rushoodi is a lawyer and former judge who had been among the group of activists detained in 2004 .
Al-Rushoodi was one of the men arrested on February 2 , 2002 .
Al-Rushoodi was released several weeks later after pledging to address his demands solely to authorities .
Al-Rushoodi joined the defense team of three activists still behind bars .
Basrawi is a prominent activist who helped draft petitions addressed to the Government during a vibrant period of political activism before the 2004 arrests
The Consultative Shura Council recently announced it was considering laws permitting the setting up of civic rights groups which are currently not allowed in the Kingdom .
Saudi Arabia has two Government - appointed human rights committees but bans independent human and civil rights organizations .
2007-05-14
China ( CN ) ; Nigeria ( Ng )
International ; Telecom ; business ; space ; Government ; technology
China has built and launched a communications satellite for Nigeria .
The satellite demonstrate 's China 's increasing skill in space technology .
Chinese officials stated on May 14 , 2007 that China had launched a Chinese manufactured communications satellite into orbit on behalf of Nigeria .
Chinese officials stated that the geostationary satellite will provide communications services over Africa and parts of the Middle East and Southern Europe .
The Chinese officials also stated that the satellite will go into operation by the end of 2007 and is expected to last 15 years .
The satellite will be managed from a control station in Abuja , Nigeria .
This launch marks the first time China has built a commercial satellite and put the satellite into orbit on contract for another country .
The launch occurred on May 14 , 2007 before dawn near the Xichang space center in southwestern Sichuan province .
Some view the launch as another sign of China 's increasing skill in space technology and China 's determination to be among the world 's great powers seeking to utilize the reaches of outer space for benefits on earth .
China 's space program 's rapid progress has caused worries in the United States because the program is run by the military and China has been recently emphasizing space - based information warfare .
The concern intensified following the successful January 11 , 2007 test - firing of an anti - satellite missile .
Some analysts stated that the test - firing demonstrated a risk to the many satellites on which United States military forces rely for navigation and weapons guidance .
China 's space agency sent 2 astronauts into orbit in October 2005 in the Agency 's second manned spaceflight .
The Chinese government on May 7 , 2007 adopted a 10 year plan for expanded space exploration .
The plan includes more manned flights as well as unmanned probes of the Moon and beyond .
Chinese officials stated that the launch of the nigcomsat - 1 aboard a Long March 3 B rocket on May 14 , 2007 represented a commercial challenge .
Some saw the launch as a symbol of China 's broad network of economic relations with Africa .
The official New China News Agency stated that the satellite represents China 's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries .
Nigeria 's managing director of the nigcomsat - 1 project Hammed Rufai stated that the launch was a breakthrough in ending the exclusive reliance on oil because the satellite will help Nigeria move toward knowledge - based industries .
The official New China News Agency stated that China secured the 311 million dollar contract in 2004 in a bidding process in which 21 other companies took part .
President of the Great Wall Industry Corporation Wang Haibo stated that the Nigerian contract puts China onto the short list of countries that can build , launch and maintain a satellite for other nations .
Chinese officials stated that about 30 similar contracts have been signed for future launches .
In the 1990s China frequently launched satellites for other countries after the satellites were manufactured elsewhere and acquired a reputation for providing such services more cheaply than other launch - capable countries .
China had been trying to establish commercial relations with oil - producing nations such as Nigeria as the Chinese economy grows nearly 10 percent a year .
Some officials have stated that Nigeria hopes to sell communications bands to neighboring African countries .
Abuja is the capital of Nigeria .
2007-06-09
Mexico ( MX )
International ; crime ; war and conflict
At least 46 people were killed by the end of the week .
There were multiple attacks including hand - grenade assaults and decapitations , with police , federal agents and rival drug - traffickers the principal victims .
Mexico 's drug - trafficking wars continued during the funeral of a 10 - year - old boy .
The boy died in a drowning accident unrelated to drug trafficking .
The boy 's grandfather was Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo .
Gallardo is the fugitive Founder of the Tijuana drug cartel .
June 4 , 2007 6 hooded gunmen entered the traditional all - night wake and shot two people , killing both .
One newspaper called the gunmen commandos .
The gunmen had written Z 's on the victims ' backs before the left .
The Z is a symbol of the Gulf cartel .
At least 46 more people were killed by the end of the week .
There were multiple attacks including hand - grenade assaults and decapitations , with police , federal agents and rival drug - traffickers the principal victims .
The killings show the scope of the violence and the tactics of psychological warfare behind it .
The killings are dispersed across the country .
Many deaths appear to involve disputes between competing bands of traffickers .
At least one of those bands appears to be splitting into different groups .
Authorities in Tuxtepec on June 5 , 2007 found a severed head with a note .
The note stated that this is going to happen to all the people who work with the zetas .
It referred to the hit men who work for the Gulf cartel .
The message was signed as the new blood .
Tuxtepec is in the southeast side of Oaxaca .
The new blood refers to a group of Gulf cartel operatives who have turned against the zetas as members of the organization bid to control trafficking routes and local drug markets .
Mexico 's Secretary of Public Safety Genaro Garcia Luna said in May 2007 that the Gulf cartel had split into rival bands .
Garcia Luna said in a recent press conference that the extreme violence in Mexico was part of a strategy by drug traffickers to force authorities into a strategic retreat .
Garcia Luna said that they are trying to create a climate of intimidation and fear in order to gain operational advantages .
Luna said the residents of a rural town or urban neighborhood will refuse to cooperate with authorities and create a social space of support for traffickers if they believe that drug traffickers cannot be defeated .
Gruesome killings have become frequent during the war this year .
New incidents of violence have arisen every day this week .
Authorities on June 6 , 2007 discovered a decapitated body left with a written message for State police in the port city of Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico .
The message said police were protecting rival drug traffickers and that the decapitated man had been selling drugs for a rival group .
Four other people were killed in and around Veracruz that same day .
This included a funeral Director who had transported the body of Efrain Torres to a cemetery in the city of Poza Rica in May .
Torres was an assassinated leader of the zetas .
The body later was stolen from its crypt .
Another victim of the violence in Veracruz cannot yet be tallied among the dead .
Business owner Roberto moguel Martinez was kidnapped by armed men on June 6 , 2007 after being released from a hospital .
Martinez had been recovering from wounds suffered in a May 31 , 2007 attack .
Martinez 's mother wrestled briefly with Martinez 's armed kidnappers on a street in the center of the city according to the Veracruz newspaper notiver .
Martinez has not been seen since .
On June 7 , 2007 there were three grenade attacks on two police stations and an army barracks in the southern state of Guerrero .
Authorities said seven people were killed in apparent drug - related attacks there .
The websites of Mexico City newspapers on June 8 , 2007 reported as many as 20 people had been gunned down nationwide in drug - related violence the previous 24 hours .
The dead included three people shot on a highway in the State of Durango in northwest Mexico .
This happened on a week when President Felipe Calderon traveled to Europe to meet with Pope Benedict XVI and other leaders .
Calderon told reporters on June 4 , 2007 in Rome that consumers in the United States were to blame for the drug - driven chaos in Mexico .
Calderon said that this is a shared problem between the United States and Mexico .
The principal cause is the use of drugs .
And the U.S. is the prime consumer in the world .
Calderon has sent the army to numerous Mexican states to fill in for over - matched and corrupt local police .
19 members of the army were ordered on June 4 , 2007 to be imprisoned as suspects in the killing of three women and two children at a rural anti - smuggling checkpoint in Sinaloa .
The five were members of a family returning from a wake .
Military officials said they had failed to stop at the checkpoint .
The shooting was more evidence of the war - like psychology gripping many corners of Mexico .
An estimated 1,200 people were already killed in the violence this year .
2007-08-21
Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
International ; weapons ; politics ; proliferation ; energy
The International Atomic Energy Agency reached an agreement with Iranian officials that stated there were no remaining issues and ambiguities regarding Iran 's nuclear program and activities .
U.S. and European officials suspect that Iran 's civilian nuclear energy program masks an effort to obtain technology that could be used in the production of an atomic bomb .
U.S. and European officials suspect that Iran 's civilian nuclear energy program masks an effort to obtain technology that could be used in the production of an atomic bomb .
U.S. and European officials may impose a 4th round of sanctions on Tehran when the U.N. Security Council considers the issue of Iran 's nuclear energy program most likely in September 2007 .
The International Atomic Energy Agency distributed limited copies of the IAEA report before a meeting on 11 September 2007 of the 35 members of the IAEA board .
The findings reflect an agency agreement on 21 August 2007 with Tehran that Iranian officials began publicizing the week of 12 August 2007 .
The accord said that there were no remaining issues and ambiguities regarding Iran 's nuclear program and activities .
According to an account by Reuters news agency the IAEA report said the work plan is a significant step forward .
Reuters quoted a senior U.N. official as stating the Iranian government 's efforts to enrich uranium had slowed .
The IAEA report stated that Iranian officials must continue to build confidence about the scope and nature of Iran 's present and future nuclear program .
Iranian officials on 30 August 2007 stated cooperation with the IAEA possibly to prevent a further round of international sanctions .
Iran 's representative to the IAEA Ali Asghar SOLTANIEH stated to Tehran 's Fars news agency that the report emphasized that there exists no sign or evidence indicating diversion of Iran 's nuclear activities and that all of Iran 's nuclear materials have been audited .
Some Nonproliferation Experts stated the IAEA was ceding too much to Iran .
Arms - control experts David Albright and Jacqueline Shire of the Washington - based Institute for Science and International Security wrote in a criticism published the week of 19 August 2007 that the idea of closing files violates fundamental safeguards principles and that the agreement does not specify that Iranian officials would provide the IAEA access to key people , facilities , and documents that are needed to verify Iranian answers to the IAEA 's questions .
Independent experts stated Iran 's latest agreement with the IAEA which gives inspectors access to more nuclear sites and information falls short of the West 's demand to halt the production of concentrated uranium that could potentially be used for a bomb .
U.S. State Department spokesman for the Bush administration Tom Casey stated that while the report may offer some new details or insight into the development of Iran 's program Iranian officials have not met any international obligations regarding the nuclear program .
Casey stated the fact that the nuclear program continues to move forward shows that the Iranian regime is continuing on a path of defiance of the international community .
Most Western Nonproliferation Experts stated the Agreement on 21 August 2007 contained little that could dissuade policymakers in Washington , London , Paris and Berlin from moving forward with another round of Security Council sanctions .
Experts stated many of the transparency issues reportedly resolved in the Agreement on 21 August 2007 should have been resolved previously .
Executive Director of nonpartisan Washington think tank the Arms Control Association Daryl G. Kimball stated the agreement does not address the problem that the Iranian government is pursuing an enrichment technology and capability that could lead to the production of nuclear bomb material .
Kimball stated the Iranian government 's design is to deflect criticism and pressure and to claim that progress is being made .
Iranian officials stated a possible reduction in collaboration with inspectors in the event of more sanctions .
The Security Council has voted unanimously to impose sanctions against Iran but the penalties have been limited from U.S. demands under Chinese and Russian pressure .
SOLTANIEH stated in an interview with state - controlled Iranian television that the report and the measures taken make the intervention of any other international organization including the Security Council irrelevant and unjustified .
2007-09-30
Israel ( IL )
proliferation ; technology ; international ; politics
Documents outlining the Israeli proposal to allow the international transfer of nuclear technology to States that have not signed on to nonproliferation rules were distributed to the Nuclear Suppliers Group .
The proposal may complicate the Bush administration 's efforts to win an exemption for India to engage in nuclear trade .
Israeli officials convinced a key group of nations engaged in nuclear trade to adopt new guidelines allowing the international transfer of nuclear technology to States that have not signed on to nonproliferation rules .
Countries including India , Israel and Pakistan that have not signed the nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty are prohibited from participating in international nuclear trade which includes purchasing reactors , uranium fuel or yellowcake .
Documents outlining the Israeli proposal were distributed to the 45 - member Nuclear Suppliers Group ( NSG ) in March 2007 .
The Israeli presentation was made in a nonpaper that allows for official deniability .
According to a letter from the Chairman of the NSG on 17 March 2007 the Israeli presentation was offered in the context of the NSG 's debate over Indian officials ' bid for an exemption .
Among the nations that have not signed the Treaty only India and Israel would qualify for admission to the NSG under the Israeli proposal .
The Israeli plan offered 12 criteria for allowing nuclear trade with non - treaty states .
1 criterion indicated Israel 's status as an undeclared nuclear weapons state and said a State should be allowed to engage in nuclear trade if the State applies stringent physical protection , control and accountancy measures to all nuclear weapons , nuclear facilities , source material and special nuclear material in the State 's territory .
The documents circulated on Capitol Hill in September 2007 as the Bush administration worked toward an agreement with Indian officials .
Executive Director of the Arms Control Association in Washington Daryl Kimball stated the Israeli document could affect the debate over India .
Kimball stated --
The dynamics at the NSG are that officials from the countries do not want to be obstacles to India which is the largest country and the United States which is the most powerful country .
Consensus on India will be difficult to reach when the NSG meets in November 2007 .
Israel 's proposal gives officials from some countries reason to suggest an alternative approach to a specific exemption .
Israel 's record is good and better than India 's in following international nuclear rules .
Despite ties between Israeli and U.S. governments the Bush Administration rejected the Israeli proposal .
The proposal may complicate the Bush administration 's efforts to win an exemption for India to engage in nuclear trade .
President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice view the Pact as an important part of the Bush administration 's foreign policy legacy .
The deal is controversial in India and Congress must give approval .
Delays in winning approval for the India deal could have a negative effect on the administration 's foreign policy legacy with delay until an election year having the most negative effect .
State Department spokesman Tom Casey stated the U.S. government views the India deal as unique and does not see the deal as a precedent for any other country including Israel .
Spokesman for the Israeli embassy David Siegel stated the suggestion that the Israeli government is demanding an exemption or linking efforts to any other issue including the India debate is grossly inaccurate .
Seigel stated --
The Israeli government has never asked the NSG for any exemption to nuclear supply guidelines or made any Israeli - specific request of the NSG .
Israel is recognized as a full - fledged adherent to the NSG Guidelines .
The Israeli government has urged the NSG to consider adopting a generic , multi - tiered , criteria - based approach towards nuclear technology transfers .
Some officials from NSG countries have previously suggested an approach like the Israeli plan .
If modification of the NSG Guidelines were to take place along the lines proposed by Israeli officials the nuclear nonproliferation regime would be considerably enhanced .
2007-06-18
Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
proliferation ; international
The North Korean government may be prepared to begin shutting down a plutonium producing reactor in June 2007 as the first step toward disabling the Unit by December 2007 .
Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill stated on 18 June 2007 that the North Korean government may be prepared to begin shutting down a plutonium producing reactor in June 2007 as the first step toward disabling the Unit by December 2007 .
Hill is the head American negotiator on North Korea 's nuclear weapons program .
Hill stated stalled efforts to dismantle North Korea 's nuclear weapons program could move ahead after the weekend of 16 June 2007 and 17 June 2007 when Pyongyang officials invited inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency to visit for talks on verifying and monitoring a shutdown .
Following talks with Chinese negotiator Wu Dawei Hill stated the shutdown has long been anticipated .
Hill stated the shutdown could occur in a matter of weeks not months .
The Associated Press reported from Vienna , Austria that the IAEA stated on 18 June 2007 that a team would visit Pyongyang the week of 24 June 2007 to discuss the manner in which inspectors will verify the shutdown .
Hill stated IAEA inspectors will hold talks with Pyongyang officials on sealing the reactor which would include the installation of television monitors at the site .
North Korean officials refused to proceed with a February 2007 agreement to begin decommissioning the Yongbyon reactor until funds worth 25 million dollars in accounts linked to North Korea held in a Macao Bank were transferred to North Korea .
The money was frozen when officials from the United States accused the Banco Delta Asia of complicity in financial crimes on behalf of North Korea .
The funds were wired on 14 June 2007 to the New York Federal Reserve Bank after months of disagreement over the method of returning the funds .
The funds were to be sent to Russia 's Central Bank before a transfer to an account controlled by the North Korea government in a Russian commercial bank .
Hill stated talks will occur the week of 17 June 2007 with disarmament negotiators from Russia , South Korea and Japan on steps to recoup some of the time lost while the financial transfer was being organized .
The discussions will also involve setting a timetable for resumption of 6 - nation arms control talks .
Under the agreement reached in February 2007 North Korean officials pledged to shut down the Yongbyon reactor and allow inspectors to verify and monitor the shutdown in return for a 50000 - ton shipment of fuel oil .
North Korean officials will declare all nuclear programs and disable all facilities in return for a further 950000 tons of fuel oil in the next phase of the Agreement .
Hill stated the technical possibility of concluding the next phase of the agreement by December 2007 .
2007-08-27
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; Government ; energy
Leading arms control experts criticize a new nuclear activities plan released by Iran and the U.N. 's International Atomic Energy Agency as ineffectual and dangerous .
On 27 August 2007 Iran and the U.N. 's International Atomic Energy Agency released a plan for resolving issues by December 2007 .
The issues have been unresolved for 4 years .
The plan is meant to allay suspicions about Iran 's past nuclear activities .
Agency officials stated that the plan is a breakthrough .
On 28 August 2007 at a news conference in Tehran Iranian President Mahmoud ahmadinejad stated that --
investigation into Iran 's nuclear activities is now closed .
No other member of the International Atomic Energy Agency has cooperated as well as Iran .
Iran is a nuclear nation .
Iran has the nuclear fuel cycle .
Iran will not succumb to international pressure to curb Iran 's nuclear projects .
Iran 's nuclear projects are for peaceful purposes .
The United States and some European nations believe that Iran 's nuclear projects are for the purpose of making nuclear weapons .
Several Western Governments and leading arms control experts stated that Iran is attempting to avoid further punishment by the U.N. Security Council .
The Western Governments include the United States and France .
The Governments and experts believe that Iran is attempting to --
slow the arms control process .
avoid answering questions about Iran 's past treaty violations .
Physicist and President of the Institute for Science and International Security David Albright stated that --
There is no way to verify Iran 's claims .
The International Atomic Energy Agency has no access to people , documents , sites .
The International Atomic Energy Agency loses the right to ask further questions in the future .
The unusual development sets a bad precedent .
The International Atomic Energy Agency may have been tricked because it was eager for a deal .
The International Atomic Energy Agency plan announced that --
Iran resolved questions about Iran 's past experiments with plutonium with no explanation how .
Senior Fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies mark Fitzpatrick stated that --
The International Atomic Energy Agency plan is superficial .
The International Atomic Energy Agency plan draws out negotiations for many months .
The International Atomic Energy Agency plan could leave the International Atomic Energy Agency with incomplete and misleading answers from Iran .
The International Institute for Strategic Studies is located in London .
Plutonium is a material that can be used to make nuclear weapons .
The Institute for Science and International Security is a private research organization located in Washington .
The International Atomic Energy Agency is based in Vienna .
2007-11-15
Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
proliferation ; international ; business
A list from the Nuclear Suppliers Group shows that Iran has been denied purchases of nuclear - related materials approximately 75 times since 1998 because of suspicions the purchases could have been used for building bombs .
A list from the Nuclear Suppliers Group shows that Iran has been denied purchases of nuclear - related materials approximately 75 times since 1998 because of suspicions the purchases could have been used for building bombs .
The 45 - nation Nuclear Suppliers Group is an offshoot of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and is charged with monitoring international trade to ensure that nuclear technology transferred for peaceful purposes is not directed to military use .
The Nuclear Suppliers Group is composed of technologically advanced countries .
According to the Nuclear Suppliers Group 's mission statement countries act on an individual basis to block trades that violate export controls devised to maintain international cooperation on peaceful uses of nuclear energy .
The Nuclear Suppliers Group has no enforcement power beyond notifying companies of violating the group 's guidelines .
The Nuclear Suppliers Group keeps data private and meets largely in secret .
Most of the denials of purchase have occurred since 2002 and have resulted from interventions by members of the Nuclear Suppliers Group .
The list of trade denials was made available by a diplomat from a country interested in exposing the extent of Iranian efforts to acquire so - called dual - use items that can be converted to weapons production .
The list was made available on condition that neither the diplomat nor the diplomat 's country be identified .
The list names companies from Australia , Finland , Sweden , the United Arab Emirates and Iran that were prevented from carrying out deals because the items being sold were suspected of being militarily useful .
The listed items being offered for sale in the blocked deals included Nickel powder , petrochemical plant components , compressors , furnaces , steel flanges and fittings , electron microscopes , radiometric ore - sorting machines , valves and tubing , lasers , a rotary drilling rig , a mass spectrometer and a nitrogen production plant .
The Iranian end users included the Government of Iran and Iran 's Atomic Energy Organization , power companies , engineering , petrochemical and oil - refining and gas companies , aircraft industries , schools , universities , engine manufacturers , mineral research centers , a helicopter support company and a plasma physics center .
The diplomat stated the 75 denials represented actions by only 7 of the 45 member States .
The diplomat stated the actual number of denials of sales of dual - use products to Iran is probably much higher than 75 .
Western diplomats stated that the government in Tehran uses front companies to receive and convert technology to weapons production without being detected as the standoff with Iran over Iran 's nuclear program has continued .
Iran is a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty but not a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group .
