The okno is located in Tajikistan 's mountains 2200 meters ( 7260 feet ) above sea level and takes advantage of the area 's fine weather and high transparency of the atmosphere .
Such conditions are not found elsewhere in the former Soviet Union .
The site describes it as similar to the U.S. GEODSS system , or ground - based electro - optical Deep Space Surveillance .
Three such U.S. facilities are operational .
The construction of the facility started in 790000 , but stopped after the 910000 Soviet collapse when Tajikistan slid into a 5 year civil war that undermined its economy and left its population in deep poverty .
About 25000 Russian troops and border guards are deployed in Tajikistan to help protect its volatile southern border with Afghanistan and prevent drug smuggling .
2002-08-08
Italy ( IT )
International ; Telecom ; business ; Government ; technology ; politics
Italy is leading a technology transfer initiative developed by the G - 8 countries which will improve the technology of developing countries .
The goal of the initiative is to provide the infrastructure and good governance needed to alleviate poverty .
Italy sponsors technology transfer to developing countries as a form of foreign aid and alleviating poverty .
Premier Silvio Berlusconi supported and sponsored the initiative with counterparts at recent international gatherings including the last G - 8 Summit in Canada .
Italy persuaded partners to let Italy lead the G - 8 summit 's e-government initiative called DOT Force or digital opportunity task force .
Former IBM executive and current technology minister of Italy Lucio Stanca is leading Italy 's Internet program for developing countries as part of the Group of Eight 's efforts to reduce the digital divides .
Silvio Berlusconi gave Lucio Stanca his current role of modernizing Italy 's bureaucracy .
Lucio Stanca stated that Italy will not targeting countries that have very basic needs .
The first technology transfer projects will be implemented in the fall .
One such project is creating an electronic database for real estate in Mozambique .
So far 12 million euros or 12 million dollars have been allocated to finance the initial phase of these projects .
This cost is only a fraction of the total cost .
Italy is financing most of the cost but the World Bank and possibly some private telecommunications companies are also contributing .
Lucio Stanca stated that the world must solve the problem of world hunger , disease and education but in order to do that the world must first help create good governance .
The rationale behind creating good governance is that by making the public administration of developing countries more transparent and accountable developing countries would become more attractive potential recipients of traditional forms of aid such as loans and investments .
In effect good governance would invalidate the reason used by countries that do not do enough that donating is not appropriate because it is impossible to know whether the aid would reach its true destination .
The United Nations telecommunications agency stated that 83 countries in Africa , Asia , and the former Soviet Union still have less than 10 telephone lines for every 100 people .
Other studies note that even though the Internet has been in use for more than a decade , only about 10 percent of the world 's population has access to it .
Reducing the digital divide has taken on a central role in the fight against global poverty in recent years .
The United Nations has repeatedly stated that the world 's poor may be further marginalized if there is no improvement in access to information technology .
Reducing the digital divide was declared a priority at last year 's G - 8 Summit in Genoa which included Russia .
Italy launched pilot programs in 5 countries at a conference in Sicily sponsored by the United Nations and Italy in April , 2002 .
The Conference focused on how technologies can be used to improve administration in developing countries .
The plan for Albania is computerization of demographic surveys .
The plan for Jordan is e-procurement which will allow online trading , auctions , payment and settlement of bills .
The plan for Tunisia is the creation of electronic databases to facilitate tax collection .
The plan for Nigeria and Mozambique is the creation an electronic database for real estate .
Washington - based adviser at World Learning Ann hudock stated that poverty reduction will only occur when the poor themselves are brought into the policy process .
Oxfram America is a nonprofit development group based in Boston .
World Learning is an organization promoting education and justice .
2002-10-12
Russia ( RU )
International ; Government ; technology ; military ; space ; weapons
Russian Navy , Air Force and space forces successfully carried out a series of test firings of missiles
Russian defense officials said the Russian Navy , Air Force and space forces successfully carried out a series of test firings of missiles on 021012 .
A spokesman for the Russian Space Forces press service said the Russian Space Forces test - fired an RS - 12 M Topol intercontinental ballistic missile .
The spokesman said the missile took off from the Plesetsk cosmodrome , about 1200 kilometers ( 800 miles ) north of Moscow and hit the target at the Kura Test Range on the Kamchatka peninsula in Russia 's Far East , about 7000 kilometers ( 4200 miles ) away .
The spokesman said the launch was carried out by the Strategic Rocket Forces and space forces in accordance with schedule of troops military training .
Topol missiles have been on combat duty for 15 years and Russia periodically tests them to see if their lifetime can be extended .
A defense ministry spokesman said the Russian Navy 's northern and Pacific fleets successfully test - fired ballistic missiles from nuclear submarines in the Barents Sea to the north and the Sea of Okhotsk .
The spokesman said the purpose of the tests was to check the efficiency of the military command bodies of the Russian armed forces .
Interfax news agency reported that 2 Russian strategic bombers on 021012 launched cruise missiles as part of a training exercise .
Interfax said a Tu - 160 bomber and a Tu - 95 MS bomber launched the missiles against targets located on the military testing grounds in the Volga region after a 12 - hour training flight .
2002-12-28
India ( IN ) ; Pakistan ( PK )
International ; terrorism ; government
Indian Deputy Prime Minister accuses Pakistan of becoming a haven for terrorists escaped from Afghanistan and permitting increasing guerrilla attacks in Kashmir .
20021228 Indian Deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani stated at a gathering of paramilitary police officers in New Delhi --
Intelligence reports state that al-Qaeda members have fled from American forces in Afghanistan and relocated to western Pakistan and Pakistan - controlled Kashmir , making Pakistan the new epicenter of terrorism .
Cross - border incursions by Islamic guerrillas into Indian - controlled Kashmir increased in recent weeks .
The international community must beware of the situation , which could prove expensive for any country .
Pakistan 's foreign ministry spokesman Aziz Ahmad Khan stated in Islamabad --
The accusations were without merit .
Indian leaders have previously leveled baseless allegations at Pakistan .
India should resolve its issues with Pakistan including the core issue of Kashmir to ensure durable peace in the region , rather than accuse Pakistan .
India has refused talks with Pakistan .
Pakistani and American officials stated that over 400 Taliban and al-Qaeda suspects have been arrested in Pakistan .
20021228 the head of the Pakistan - based guerrilla group Hezb - ul Mujahadeen Syed Salahuddin stated at a meeting of Hezb commanders in mazzafarabad , the capital of Pakistani Kashmir , that Hezb will continue and increase jihad in the Indian state of Jammu - Kashmir with full force .
Hezb is the largest of over 12 militias battling Indian troops for Kashmir 's independence from mostly Hindu India , or its merger with Islamic Pakistan .
Advani stated --
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf 's assurance to the United States of ending cross - border terrorism in Kashmir , terminating militant camps and banning dozens of Islamic groups was merely cosmetic .
Many of the banned terrorist groups continued activity in Pakistan and Kashmir under new names .
The Indian army stated that 4 Islamic militants were killed in 2 separate gun battles 20021228 .
Indian army spokesman Lt. Col . Mukhtar Singh stated that soldiers stormed a militant hideout in Kreeri , a village 35 kilometers north of Srinagar , Jammu - Kashmir 's summer capital .
2 militants identified as members of the Pakistan - based Lashkar - e - Tayyaba group were killed .
Approximately 25 kilometers southwest of Sringar 2 militants were killed in a second gun battle .
Local police reported 4 civilians wounded in the crossfire .
India and Pakistan have fought 2 of 3 wars over control of Kashmir .
Both countries claim the entirety of the region .
The Islamic insurgency in Kashmir has lasted 13 years and killed over 61000 people .
India accuses Pakistan of funding and training the cross - border guerrillas .
Pakistan claims it offers moral rather than material support to the rebels , whom it considers freedom fighters .
2003-01-25
Thailand ( TH ) ; Japan ( JP ) ; Malaysia ( MY ) ; Philippines ( PH ) ; Korea , Republic of ( KR ) ; India ( IN )
International ; technology ; Telecom ; business ; crime
A virus - like computer infection spread through Asian digital networks and disrupted Internet services in several countries .
The virus is thought to have utilized a security flaw in microsoft software .
A virus - like computer infection spread through worldwide digital networks and interrupted Internet service in parts of Asia on 25 January 2003 .
The infection slowed or halted web browsing and e-mail services in several countries .
Users and news media reported outages or slowdowns in Thailand , Japan , Malaysia , the Philippines , South Korea and India .
Internet service providers said a sudden surge in traffic jammed networks on the afternoon of 25 January 2003 .
Antivirus vendor Symantec Corp. estimated at least 22000 systems were affected worldwide .
A technical support representative for Internet Thailand stated --
A virus or worm attacked a bug in microsoft software .
While traffic among domestic Thai servers was normal , exchanges with international servers began slowing down around 12:00 pm ( 0500 GMT ) .
The exchanges came to a halt within hours before recovering the evening of 25 January 2003 .
U.S. officials stated the attack sought out vulnerable computers on the Internet using a known flaw in software from Microsoft Corp. called SQL server 2000 .
The attacking software code scanned for victim computers randomly and aggressively and sent out thousands of probes each second which overwhelmed many Internet data pipelines .
Local Thai subscribers stated that other Thai Internet service providers appeared to be unaffected .
NHK television in Japan reported --
Some of the Japan 's Internet connections experienced heavy traffic .
A public university computer had been hit by over 200000 transmissions in 1 hour .
Security firms were investigating the incident .
Traffic - directing computers at Korea Telecom freetel and SK Telecom failed to function in South Korea and affected millions of Internet users .
Chief system engineer at KT freetel Kim Chang - Rae stated excessive traffic caused 1 of KT freetel 's main domain servers to fail which forced other servers to shut down in a chain reaction .
Officials stated the system was restored after several hours but service remained slow .
The failure affected weekend Internet banking and shopping traffic ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday .
Chunghwa Telecom Co. Ltd. is 1 of the largest Internet providers in Taiwan .
A customer service operator from Chunghwa Telecom Co. Ltd. stated service experienced difficulties and that some customers were n't able to access the web .
The operator would not state how many customers were affected .
Privately - owned Internet service provider timedotcom in Malaysia stated timedotcom had received numerous complaints from customers of partial or no access to the Internet .
Internet users in New Delhi reported service interruptions but no problems were reported in India 's software development centers of Hyderabad and Bangalore .
Internet service provider sky Internet Inc. in the Philippines reported an increase in signals early on 25 January 2003 and stated the increase was an apparent attempt to congest the network .
Sky Internet Inc. workers temporarily shut down dial - up service in response to the increase in signals .
Technical operator at Sky Internet Inc. Dan Rebueno stated several signals came from an outside source that workers at Sky Internet Inc. could not identify and the Workers blocked the congestion attempts .
Rebueno stated sky Internet Inc. is currently up on a normal workload .
Officials in the United States said the attack on 25 January 2003 bore similarities to a Code Red virus in the summer of 2001 which also halted traffic on much of the Internet .
In May 2000 the so - called love bug virus was released in the Philippines and overwhelmed e-mail systems worldwide .
The virus caused 10s of millions of dollars in damage .
Prosecutors in the Philippines dismissed all charges against a man accused of releasing the virus because of a lack of applicable laws .
2003-04-06
Philippines ( PH ) ; United States ( US ) ; Singapore ( SG )
International ; terrorism
Philippine intelligence reports reveal Singapore - based al-Qaida group 's plans to bomb embassies , U.S. corporations , and warships in Singapore and to crash hijacked planes at Singapore 's National Airport .
The plans were successfully stopped in their final stages in December 2001 and 15 cell members were arrested .
Philippine intelligence reports obtained by the Associated Press reveal a Singapore - based al-Qaida group 's plans to attack embassies of the United States , Great Britain , Israel and Australia , to attack U.S. corporations and warships in Singapore and to crash a hijacked plane at the country 's international airport .
The group ordered a chemist to buy 4 tons of ammonium nitrate .
The amount is 4 times the amount of explosive that Timothy McVeigh used to bomb the Oklahoma City Federal Building .
The embassy attacks were successfully stopped in the final stages by U.S. investigators and allies in Southeast Asia but the explosives were not recovered .
1 of the phillipine reports states that Singapore is a target for terrorist attacks because of its 17000 U.S. residents and 6000 multinational companies including several American companies .
The terrorists belonged to Jemaah Islamiah designated by the U.S. government as a terrorist organization and described in 1 of the phillipine reports as part of the broader al-Qaida syndicate .
The group planned attacks in Singapore before and after the hijackings in the United States on 11 September 2001 .
The group is believed responsible for attacks throughout Southeast Asia .
The group is suspected in the bombings in Bali that killed approximately 200 people in October 2002 .
The attacks in Singapore were prevented after 15 individuals were arrested in December 2001 .
2 of the individuals arrested were released .
1 of the Philippine reports stated that local officials and Western business executives were shocked by the ability of Al-Qaida to plant operatives in such a tightly controlled society as Singapore .
The members of the 4 or 5 - man terror cells led normal lives and avoided contact with known Islamic organizations .
The members were not known to be active members of mosques in Singapore .
In efforts to avoid detection the members used code names and code numbers , communicated by e-mail , encrypted their computer diskettes and used prepaid mobile phone cards .
Investigators stated that after the U.S. military campaign began in Afghanistan members of Jemaah Islamiah planned to procure 21 tons of explosive materials and bought 4 tons of ammonium nitrate in an operation to attack embassies in Singapore .
The ammonium nitrate was purchased by captured Malaysian chemist and retired army captain Yazid Sufaat .
Authorities state that Sufaat hosted 11 September hijackers and the accused terrorism suspect Zacarias Moussaoui in Malaysia at different times in 2000 .
Authorities state that Sufaat provided Moussaoui with counterfeit documents with which to enter the United States .
Moussaoui was arrested in August 2001 in Minnesota and remains the only U.S. defendant indicted as a conspirator with the perpetrators of the 11 September attacks .
The Singaporean cell members were believed to be conducting reconnaissance when they were apprehended .
The explosive materials were sent to an Indonesian island off Singapore .
During the attack planning an Indonesian and a Kuwaiti arrived in Singapore with instructions for the embassy operations .
Cell members guided them to the U.S. embassy which was videotaped including close - up shots .
The adjoining Australian embassy was also videotaped .
In a separate plot a member of the cell took digital photographs of U.S. military aircraft and personnel using Singapore 's Paya Lebar air base .
Singapore authorities believe a cell leader traveled to Afghanistan and briefed al-Qaida leaders about the proposed shuttle bus attack between August 1999 and April 2000 .
The al-Qaida officials apparently turned down the plan because the target was not large enough .
A few days after the Singapore arrests in December 2001 a videotape was found in an abandoned house in Kabul , Afghanistan in which a narrator describes locations in Singapore where bombs could be hidden to attack Americans .
Investigators searched the homes of those detained in Singapore and found an identical videotape .
The Singapore wing of Jemaah Islamiah may also have Thai connections since at least 5 members who eluded the 2001 arrests fled to Thailand .
1 of the reports stated --
The group had previously plotted to conduct 7 simultaneous explosions in different areas of Singapore .
The Group had further planned to hijack a U.S. , British or Singaporean plane and crash it into Changi Airport in order to threaten the U.S. government to halt its military strikes against Afghanistan .
In February 2003 Indonesian police announced the arrest of the alleged head of the cell in Singapore Mas Selamat Kastari who was suspected of planning the airport attack .
Kastari also was suspected in the proposed shuttle bus attack .
The reports arose after intelligence agents from Southeast Asian countries realized after the 11 September 2001 attacks that many radical Islamic groups in the region had close connections to each other and to Osama bin Laden 's terrorist network .
2003-04-28
India ( IN ) ; France ( FR )
International ; Government ; technology ; military ; money
The defense ministers of France and India met April 28 , 2003 to discuss how India can improve defense technology with France 's guidance .
India is expected to close multiple deals with France soon regarding the purchase of military equipment .
Government representatives of India and France stated April 28 , 2003 that the 2 countries are making progress on India 's plans to purchase French - made submarines and military aircraft .
French Defense Minister Michele Alliot - Marie stated after talks with Indian Defense Minister George Fernandez that the defense partnership between India and France is exemplary in intensity and diversity .
Michele Alliot - Marie completed a 3 - day visit to India on April 28 , 2003 .
The political situation in Iraq after the fall of Saddam Hussein , Afghanistan and the global fight against terrorism influenced Michele Alliot - Marie 's visit .
Michele Alliot - Marie stated that India is considering many new contracts for French submarines , military aircraft and other defense equipment .
India and France will soon conclude a 2 billion dollar agreement to build 6 Scorpene submarines in India under a technology transfer deal .
The deal is still awaiting final approval by the Indian Cabinet Committee on Security .
The deal would allow the submarines to be supplied to the Indian Navy between 2010 and 2015 .
The submarines would be armed with French - made Exocet anti - ship missiles .
Michele Alliot - Marie stated that talks are likely to result in the successful completion of the deal by the end of 2003 .
The Indian Air Force is considering buying 130 multi - role fighter planes to replace its aging Soviet - made MiG aircraft .
France has been attempting to sell Mirage - V fighter jets to India for 5 years .
Defense deals take years to conclude in India because every agreement must be approved by several ministries and can be stalled by opposition parties .
Michele Alliot - Marie stated that the 2 sides in the Indian government have the competence and equivalent interests in defense cooperation and that the two sides must work together for deals to be completed .
The governments of India and France share the position that the United Nations should lead efforts for the physical reconstruction of Iraq and that the political reconstruction of Iraq should be the responsibility of the local people .
Michele Alliot - Marie stated that it is critical that Iraqi people take charge of the political restructuring of Iraq .
2003-05-08
Pakistan ( PK ) ; Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
International ; politics ; crime ; Government ; narcotics ; human rights
Officials from Pakistan and Iran meet to discuss efforts against cross - border drug smuggling and human trafficking at the beginning of annual security talks .
Priorities at the meeting include a proposal to create coordinated patrols and intelligence exchanges and a plan to post security agents at border points .
Officials stated that officials from Pakistan and Iran discussed efforts against cross - border drug smuggling and human trafficking at the beginning of annual security talks on 8 May 2003 .
Pakistan 's interior ministry spokesman Asif Hussein Shirazi stated that Iran 's Deputy Interior Minister for Security Affairs Ali Asghar Ahmedi and Pakistan 's Interior Ministry Secretary Tasneem Noorani met in Islamabad for the conference that will occur from 8 May 2003 through 9 May 2003 .
Ahmedi stated a proposal to create coordinated patrols and intelligence exchanges will be a priority .
Ahmedia and Noorani will also discuss a plan to post security agents at border points to deter human traffickers .
Pakistan and Iran straddle a major conduit for illegal drugs destined mainly for Western markets .
Pakistan officials stated the week of 4 May 2003 that officials had seized the largest ever drug haul 1350 kilograms ( 2970 pounds ) of heroin with an estimated value of 500 million American dollars .
The seizure was conducted in the mountains of southwest Baluchistan province near the Iranian border .
Ahmedi was scheduled to meet other Pakistani officials including Foreign Minister khusheed Kasuri in Islamabad , and the Governor of Baluchistan in the regional capital of Quetta .
2003-05-19
Israel ( IL ) ; Palestinian territory ( PS )
War and conflict ; terrorism ; international ; politics
Attack on shopping mall is 5th suicide bombing in Israel in 48 hours following recommencement of Israeli - Palestinian peace talks .
Sharon resisted renewed pressure from the cabinet to expel Arafat because the US opposes Arafat 's expulsion as a potential derailment to the road map plan that would exacerbate the situation .
Bush promised to focus on the Israeli - Palestinian conflict after the Iraq war .
20030519 Bush stated --
The Bush administration is determined to pursue a peace plan with the objective of ending violence and establishing a Palestinian state by 2005 .
The peace process is arduous but will not be abandoned until peace is achieved .
Bush 's commitment encouraged hopes of a breakthrough to end 32 months of violence but Palestinian militants have often prevented progress by increasing attacks at critical times in peacemaking .
Sharon 's insistence on ceasefire before the beginning of negotiations has granted veto powers to the militants .
2003-06-03
Korea , Republic of ( KR )
International ; crime ; narcotics
South Korean prosecutors seized 110 pounds of illegal drugs from a North Korean - owned ship .
Several nations including the United States and Japan accuse North Korea of being a major supplier of illegal drugs to Asia .
Australia has seized 2 shipments of drugs from North Korea - owned Ships .
Prosecutors in South Korea 's largest port on 3 June 2003 seized 80 kilograms ( 176 pounds ) of illegal drugs .
South Korean media stated the drugs may have originated from North Korea .
Busan customs official Koh Sang - Deok stated prosecutors followed a tip and found methamphetamines in a container in southeastern Busan .
Koh could not give further details .
South Korea 's Yonhap news agency quoted unidentified customs officials as stating the drugs had an estimated street value of 300 billion won ( 250 million American dollars ) .
The news agency quoted the officials as stating the drugs might have come from North Korea and that the container was from China and arrived in Busan after stopping at a port in northeastern North Korea known as Rajin .
The news agency stated that prosecutors were investigating .
Officials at Busan District Prosecutors ' Office were not immediately available for comment the evening of 3 June 2003 .
Officials from the United States , Japan and other nations accuse North Korea of being a major supplier of heroin , methamphetamine and other narcotics to Asia .
A U.S. State Department report on global narcotics trafficking stated many North Koreans including diplomatic employees have been apprehended abroad while trafficking illegal drugs .
North Korean officials are suspected of building nuclear weapons .
Drug trafficking , counterfeiting U.S. dollars and missile sales are believed to generate much of North Korea 's hard currency as North Korea is an impoverished country .
In April 2003 Australian authorities seized 50 kilograms ( 110 pounds ) of heroin worth 48 million American dollars from a North Korean - owned ship .
Australian authorities charged 29 of the ship 's crew members with aiding and abetting the import of an illegal product .
Australian officials stated the vessel was owned by North Korea 's ruling Communist Workers ' Party and raised the possibility of North Korean involvement .
Pyongyang officials denied involvement .
Australian police stated police had uncovered 75 kilograms ( 165 pounds ) of heroin believed to be linked to the same North Korean ship the week of 26 May 2003 .
The heroin was found near the site where the previous stash was discovered in April 2003 .
2003-06-10
Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP ) ; Australia ( AU )
International ; crime ; narcotics ; politics ; government
North Korean media denies involvement in drug trafficking after Australian authorities seized illegal drugs from a North Korean - owned vessel and stated that Australian authorities are in league with the United States Government in discriminating against North Korea .
In April 2003 Australian authorities found 50 kilograms ( 110 pounds ) of heroin worth 48 million American dollars on a North Korean - owned ship and charged the 29 crew members of the ship with aiding and abetting the import of an illegal product .
Australian authorities stated the vessel was owned by North Korea 's ruling Communist Workers ' Party and raised the possibility of North Korean involvement .
The week of 1 June 2003 Australian police stated police had seized 75 kilograms ( 165 pounds ) of heroin believed to be linked to the same North Korean ship .
On 10 June 2003 North Korean officials rejected allegations that the people of North Korea were involved in drug trafficking and accused Australian officials of joining government in Washington in an attempt to suppress North Korea .
North Korean state - run news agency KCNA stated --
North Korean officials clarify that North Korean government strictly bans drug misuse and smuggling and has nothing to do with the recent case .
The North Korean ship is a non - governmental trading ship and the owner of the ship did not know about the alleged drug smuggling .
The case is a product of the political intrigues of the United States and some undesirable forces in Australia to invent a pretext to impair the authority of the DPRK and attack the DPRK .
Officials from the United States , Japan , and other nations accuse North Korea of being a major supplier of heroin , methamphetamine and other narcotics to Asia .
A U.S. State Department report on global narcotics trafficking stated many North Koreans including employees at overseas embassies have been apprehended abroad while trafficking illegal drugs .
Drug trafficking , counterfeiting U.S. dollars and missile sales are believed to generate much of North Korea 's hard currency as North Korea is an impoverished country suspected of building nuclear weapons .
2003-08-19
Afghanistan ( AF )
Terrorism
Bombing occurred in Afghanistan as attacks by anti - government insurgents increase in recent days .
Officials have not named party responsible but have previously blamed Taliban and their allies for attacks in the region .
A bombing occurred in Afghanistan but police have not yet stated who is responsible .
Authorities have previously blamed Taliban and their allies for attacks in the south and east of Afghanistan .
Ahmed Wali Karzai is the President 's representative in southern Kandahar .
Ahmed Wali Karzai has no official function .
The younger Karzai was not in the house at the time of the explosion .
Attacks by anti - government insurgents have become increasingly bold and deadly with 100s of rebels attacking police stations in eastern Afghanistan in recent days .
Several policemen have been killed and others have been captured .
President Karzai recently replaced the governor of southern Kandahar Gul Agha Sherzai with another ethnic Pashtun Yusuf Pashtun
This replacement was an effort to reduce the power of regional warlords and to extend the Government 's authority beyond the capital of Kabul .
There was no indication of whether the bomb explosion was linked to insurgents or to tribal rivalries .
2003-10-21
Albania ( al )
International ; crime ; weapons
Albanian Luan Krasniqi has been convicted and sentenced in absentia for weapons trafficking .
Krasniqi was captured in Macedonia on an international arrest warrant .
21 October 2003 -- Albanian Luan Krasniqi has been convicted and sentenced in absentia for weapons trafficking .
Krasniqi was captured in Macedonia on an international arrest warrant .
In 2002 Krasniqi was sentenced to 10 years in prison after escaping arrest .
Circumstances of Krasniqi 's arrest are unclear .
Krasniqi may have been stopped by police because for not having a passport and later arrested on the basis of the international warrant .
On 20 October 2003 Krasniqi was deported to Albania .
Krasniqi is a resident of village in Kukes district .
Kukes district is located 200 kilometers ( 125 miles ) northeast of Tirana and borders Macedonia .
Approximately 150000 weapons may have reached ethnic Albanian militants fighting in Kosovo and Macedonia .
Albania has collected 200000 of the weapons .
Illegally held weapons are a major problem in Albania .
An estimated 200000 arms are held by private citizens in Albania .
In 1997 an estimated 550000 weapons , 839 million rounds of ammunition and 16 million explosive devices disappeared from Albania during unrest that followed riots .
The riots started after pyramid schemes into which most Albanians had invested their savings had collapsed .
Kosovo and Macedonia border Albania .
2003-10-21
Taiwan ( TW )
Business ; technology
6 foreign companies enter into 7 cooperation agreements with Taiwanese companies in a ceremony in Taipei
Another 6 foreign companies entered into 7 cooperation agreements with local Taiwanese companies in a high - profile ceremony in Taipei on 031021 .
The event was timed to coincide with the final day of the 030000 Taiwan Business Alliance conference .
Vice Minister of Economics Shih yen - shiang participating .
Specific companies entering cooperation agreements
Japanese company access signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Institute for Information Industry .
Access agreed to transfer technology on mobile phone services to Taiwan phone operators .
The pact will make Taiwan the base for research and development activities for access .
South Korea 's NC soft signed a joint venture with Taiwan 's gamania to cooperate in the online game business .
NC soft is South Korea 's largest online game maker .
Italian company Morini Franco motori and Taiwan Golden Bee agreed to set up a joint venture to produce motorcycle engines .
The technology transfer will upgrade the research , development and production of Taiwanese motorcycle - makers .
Analysts expect that products worth NT $ 10 billion will be produced in the next decade .
The Itochu group from Japan contracted with Taiwan 's emtac technology to jointly promote the sales of emtac 's products overseas , including GPS antennas .
Itochu has at present already brokered purchase deals for foreign buyers of emtac 's products worth NT $ 150 million ( US $ 4.41 million ) .
Itochu has promised to assist emtac in importing and developing key parts and is prepared to invest in emtac in the future .
U.S. - based Pharmaessentia will cooperate with Taiwan 's genovate biotechnology to develop , design , manufacture and sell drugs designed to fight cancer , high blood pressure and asthma .
Pharmaessentia also concluded an agreement with the Taiwanese company Synmosa Biopharma to grant each other preferential status in mutual cooperation efforts .
Pharmaessentia and Synmosa Biopharma agreed to jointly develop products that use mainly raw materials produced by Pharmaessentia and which comply with U.S. market standards .
Pharmaessentia and Synmosa Biopharma will separately sell those products in the Asian and U.S. markets respectively .
AMERICAN COMPANY ryss laboratory 's Taiwan subsidiary and Taiwan 's pharmaceutical industry technology and development center concluded an agreement to exchange technology and combine their strengths for the research and manufacturing of new drugs to upgrade domestic pharmaceutical manufacturing standards .
The pharmaceutical industry technology and development center is devoted to the research and development of pharmaceuticals and other life sciences products .
2004-02-12
Taiwan ( TW )
International ; technology ; weapons ; war and conflict ; government
Taiwanese Vice President Annette Lu warned that European transfer of European technology to the People 's Republic of China could encourage the PRC government to invade Taiwan .
Taiwanese Vice President Annette Lu warned on 040212 that the transfer of European technology to the People 's Republic of China could encourage the PRC government to invade Taiwan .
Lu noted that the European Union adopted a resolution to ban arms sales to mainland China after the Tiananmen massacre of 890000 and said it is worrisome that the leaders of France and Germany are reportedly seeking to lift the ban following years of commercial interest enticements by the PRC government .
Lu expressed concern that European advanced technology will be transferred to the mainland and added that such transfers would be helpful for the PRC government 's military buildup and will therefore encourage an invasion of Taiwan by the mainland .
Lu said that the government of mainland China has tried to isolate Taiwan diplomatically and has been increasing its military buildup against Taiwan .
Lu said the PRC government has deployed around 500 missiles targeting Taiwan and the number of missiles deployed is expected to increase to 650 next year .
Lu described the PRC government as a real international terrorist because of the threat of missiles aimed at Taiwan and the PRC 's preparations to invade Taiwan .
Lu added that this is why Taiwanese President Chen Shui - bian called for a peace referendum for 040320 alongside the Taiwanese presidential election .
Lu said European nations should not join the PRC government in opposing Taiwan 's planned referendum .
Lu said that Taiwan is not a part of the People 's Republic of China and has maintained substantive relations with almost all countries around the world even though most of them do not have diplomatic relations with Taiwan .
Taiwan has never ceased making efforts to participate in international activities and has made great contributions to global development despite being refused membership by many international organizations .
Lu 's remarks were made at Taiwan 's presidential office while receiving the mayor of the Austrian city of Innsbruck Hilde Zach .
Zach arrived in Taipei Tuesday for a 6 - day visit at the invitation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs .
Zach hopes to gain a better understanding of Taiwan 's development in the political , economic , cultural and tourism fields .
2004-06-28
Taiwan ( TW )
International ; technology ; weapons ; Government ; business ; money
Taiwan Executive Yuan may not approve Taiwanese participation in the construction of submarines sold from the United States .
A delegation of Taiwanese legislators completed an 11 - day fact - finding trip to the United States .
The Taiwan Executive Yuan submitted a NT $ 610.8 billion ( US $ 18.23 billion ) special budget to buy 388 Patriot PAC - III missiles , 8 conventional submarines and 12 P - 3 C anti - submarine aircraft from the United States earlier this month .
The budget is now pending approval by the Legislative Yuan .
Ker Chien - ming , the Democratic Progressive Party ( DPP ) whip at the Taiwan legislature said on 040628 that discussions are turning negative in regard to whether the China Shipbuilding Corp. ( CSBC ) should take part in the construction of submarines which the United States has promised to sell to Taiwan .
Navy Commander - in - Chief Miao Yung - Ching called on the Legislative Yuan to communicate on the review of the arms procurement budget of which the submarine deal is a part .
Miao said it is not feasible for CSBC to take part in the construction of the submarines and that the Navy will negotiate with the United States on obtaining repair capacity and technology transfers .
Miao said that no countries want to buy conventional submarines .
This would make it futile to give the CSBC the capacity to build them .
The United States has control of the key technology in building the submarines .
Lee Wen - chung is another DPP legislator who has been involved .
Lee said on 040628 that the delegation asked the United States to shorten the delivery period of the submarines from 15 years to 10 years .
This indicates that Taiwan has already given up the policy of building the submarines itself .
Lee said that if the submarines are not built by Taiwan then the cost of the eight subs will be NT $ 100 billion less than the original plan of NT $ 400 billion .
Lee 's figures were based on the price tags of submarines sold from Germany and Spain along with the cost of obtaining repair capacity .
Lee was asked if the long delivery period of 10 years might affect Taiwan 's military strength and tip the military cross - Taiwan Strait balance toward mainland China after 050000 .
Lee answered that any possible naval military balance tilting toward the PRC after 050000 would not mean an eruption of war at that time .
Lee claimed that Taiwan still enjoys the edge in the air .
Lee added that an order of Kidd - class destroyers due to arrive at Taiwan by the end of next year would allow Taiwan to still maintain its edge .
Lee also said that the United States will deliver the first 5 of 12 P - 3 C aircraft in 080000 , with another 3 in 090000 , 4 in 100000 and the final 4 in 110000 .
1995-12-18
Germany ( DE )
International ; weapons ; war and conflict
The process to try to control and reduce arms in the embattled Balkans was formally launched in Bonn , Germany , when foreign ministers , ambassadors and representatives of international organizations and observer nations met to discuss what form further talks should take .
The long process to try to control and reduce arms in the embattled Balkans was formally launched on 951218 in Bonn , Germany .
Foreign ministers , ambassadors and representatives of international organizations and observer nations met in Bonn to discuss what form further talks should take .
There are huge obstacles to achieving peace and cooperation among combatants in the former Yugoslavia .
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said in opening remarks at the one - day meeting that there can be no peace in the former Yugoslavia if some parties to the conflict remain heavily armed and others try to catch up .
The Croation delegation threatened to pull out of arms - reduction negotiations if certain demands were not met in the nearest future .
Delegates from other countries called on Croatia , Bosnia - Herzegovina and Serbia to set aside their grievances and learn to compromise .
Croatian Foreign Minister Mate Granic complained that a part of Croatian territory is under occupation and time is running out .
Granic said in reference to disputed lands on the Croatian - Serbian border that the peaceful re - integration of Eastern Slavonia is the key to the lasting stability in the region and that everyone faces the danger of another round of hostilities and the destabilization of the whole region and highly unpredictable consequences for Bosnia - Herzegovina without it .
Conference participants said Foreign Minister Milan Milutinovic from Serbia scolded his Croatian counterpart for grandstanding .
Then Milutinovic made a threat to pull out of arms - control negotiations .
Milutinovic noted the Serbian Government has been suspended since 920000 from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and said that unless full membership were restored Yugoslavia will be prevented from cooperating despite its readiness to do so .
The OSCE is to oversee the next round of Balkan arms - reduction talks .
Michael Williams is a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London and formerly the United Nations ' senior spokesman for Croatia and called the early threats from Croatia and Serbia a worrying development and an ominous development .
Williams said it was really not clear that the parties are willing to engage in any arms control in a meaningful way .
This corresponds to a fear expressed by some delegates to the 951218 Bonn meeting that the yugolav parties do not want to negotiate away the ability to use violence or a threat of violence to seize territory .
Greek Foreign Minister karelos Papoulias observed of the Balkan belligerents that during talk in the plenary session one realizes that this is still the way they are thinking .
Papoulias said the Greek government is not as optimistic as other European partners and that just because there is a Conference does n't mean there is friendship between the people of the former Yugoslavia .
The 951218 talks were organized to fulfill the combatants ' pledge made in Dayton , Ohio , to begin talks to enhance mutual confidence and reduce the risk of conflict within 7 days of the Peace Accord 's formal signing .
The agenda on 951218 was limited to set the formal process for coming weeks .
The German Foreign Ministry said in a statement that this was so as to clear the way for speedy negotiation of the substantive questions .
Croatia , Bosnia - Herzegovina and Serbia are the nations that signed the Dayton accord and are supposed to report how many tanks and armored vehicles , heavy artillery pieces , combat aircraft and attack helicopters they possess in the next phase .
This data will be used to establish baselines from which weapons ceilings can be agreed on .
Croatia , Bosnia - Herzegovina and Serbia have promised to accept a set of automatic limits if agreement on such ceilings cannot be reached in 180 days .
Kinkel said that on 951218 delegates had been unable to fix a date for the next round of talks but said the next talks would be 960104 or 960107 in Vienna .
Kinkel said minor problems not substantive discord kept delegates from choosing a firm date .
1999-06-30
India ( IN ) ; Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
International ; technology ; weapons ; government
Indian officials seize missile assembly line from the North Korean vessel the kuwolsan on 30 June 1999 .
The discovery heightens suspicions of North Korean weapons proliferation .
On 30 June 1999 Indian customs agents in the northwestern port city of Kandla boarded the North Korean freighter kuwolsan .
Following a melee with the crew of the kuwolsan , customs agents discovered an assembly line for ballistic missiles .
U.S. intelligence officials stated Libyan government was the intended recipient of the cargo .
The kuwolsan departed North Korea 's Nampo harbor on 10 April 1999 .
Records show that on 20 April 1999 the kuwolsan made detours to 2 Thai ports to pick up 14000 tons of sugar for resale along the way to the kuwolsan 's destination .
The kuwolsan switched course in order to sell the sugar to an Indian company after a deal to sell the sugar to Algerians failed .
An Indian investigator stated that the crew of the kuwolsan should not have picked up extra cargo at several ports when carrying 200 tons of sensitive equipment and that such activity was crazy .
Indian customs officials were tipped off to possible contraband on the kuwolsan while the kuwolsan was en route to Kandla .
The kuwolsan was rumored to be carrying arms or ammunition possibly intended for Pakistan .
Indian port officials were waiting when the kuwolsan arrived in Kandla on 25 June 1999 .
Irregularities in the kuwolsan 's papers were apparent within the first few hours of investigation .
Indian officials learned that the company in Malta listed as the intended recipient of the cargo was fictitious .
Indian officials questioned why anyone in Malta would choose to buy water refining equipment from North Korea when Malta is a short flight from Europe .
Indian customs agents questioned the captain of the kuwolsan Tae Min Hun .
Tae blocked every request and threatened international reprisals if Indian officials did not allow Tae to leave Kandla .
On 30 June 1999 customs officials demanded to search the kuwolsan 's cargo boxes and Tae stated that the kuwolsan had received a telex from North Korean officials .
Tae received instructions from officials in Pyongyang to allow no one to open the cargo boxes at all costs .
The official Indian after - action report stated Tae would not open any more boxes as per the telex .
The report stated the crew members shouted at and abused the customs officers .
According to witness accounts and video footage of the encounter , tae and the crew of the kuwolsan barricaded the doors of the kuwolsan with the crews ' bodies .
An Indian official who was present on the kuwolsan and who spoke on the condition of anonymity stated the situation became physical and there were fisticuffs .
The official stated the crew began closing the hatches to the cargo hold with the customs inspectors still inside .
On 1 July 1999 armed troops and a group of government weapons experts aided customs officials and gained forcible entry onto the kuwolsan .
A few crates among the kuwolsan 's cargo contained equipment that could be used in a water treatment plant .
Inspectors found pumps , nozzles and a few valves .
The cargo boxes were labeled as water refinement equipment .
Documents from the investigation contain a partial list of the contents of most of the cargo crates which included --
Components for missile subassembly .
Machine Tools for setting up a fabrication facility .
Instrumentation for evaluating the performance of a full missile system .
Equipment for calibrating missile components .
Rocket nose cones , stacks of metal pipe and heavy - duty presses used for milling high - grade steel .
A Plate - bending machine capable of rolling thick metal sheets , toroidal air bottles used to guide warheads after separation from a missile , and Theodolites that measure missile trajectories .
Several boxes of engineering drawings , blueprints , notebooks , textbooks and reports .
Personal items presumably intended for North Korean workers , including cookbooks in Korean , Korean spices , pickles and acupuncture sets .
An Indian government official familiar with the kuwolsan discovery stated that in the past officials had seen missiles or engine parts , but here was an entire assembly line for missiles offered for sale .
The official stated that this was a complete technology transfer .
A technical committee of Indian missile experts stated that the equipment was unimpeachable and irrefutable evidence of a plan to transfer not just missiles but missile - making capability .
The technical panel wrote in a report that the cargo points to only one end - use , namely the assembling of missiles and manufacture of the parts and subassemblies of surface to surface missiles .
Investigators searched the blueprints that were kept inside numbered plastic jackets and wrapped in brown paper .
Some of the packets were labeled in English as Scud B or Scud C. Nearly all of the drawings showed rockets or sections of rockets with notes and mathematical formulas handwritten in Korean .
Native Korean speakers assisted in translation but the documents contained technical code invented by North Korean scientists to replace scientific terms in Russian or Chinese .
The investigation ultimately yielded information about North Korea 's weapons program which Indian authorities shared with ally Governments .
The Scud B and Scud C designs found on the kuwolsan were from older North Korean missile programs which were derived from Soviet missile designs of the 1950s .
One Indian government official who studied the blueprints stated the science was old and dated but still functional .
Retired director of the State Department 's Office on strategic , proliferation and military issues in the Bureau of Intelligence and Research Greg Thielmann stated the CIA utilized the blueprints to make full mock - ups of missiles complete with decals .
The blueprints included information pertaining to the inner workings of North Korea 's missile industry which has been the focus of contention between the United States and North Korea since the 1980s .
The cargo on the kuwolsan did not include everything needed for missile production which raises the possibility that there may have been earlier and possible later shipments .
Missile expert and senior analyst at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies Timothy V. McCarthy examined some of the blueprints and other evidence and stated this was a slice in time of a technology transfer from North Korea to Libya .
McCarthy stated the intelligence find helps U.S. officials learn how North Korean missile scientists learn .
McCarthy stated the information gives U.S. officials an idea of how capable North Korean scientists are of progressing to more advanced missiles and gives U.S. officials insight into the aspect of proliferation when one country 's officials attempt to transfer technology to another country 's officials .
McCarthy stated no one can stop Libyan scientists once the scientists are capable of making missiles .
The kuwolsan and the crew were unaccounted for after Indian officials released the kuwolsan in 2000 .
Shipping experts at Lloyd 's maritime division in London stated the kuwolsan 's name was changed in the summer of 2000 to Sun grisan 9 .
As of the week of 3 August 2003 the sun grisan 9 was still in service and was last reported headed to the Somalian capital of Mogadishu .
The nature of the Sun grisan 9 's cargo was unknown .
As of 14 August 2003 the evidence from the kuwolsan is secured in a military warehouse in New Delhi .
As stated in court documents and interviews with officials in the United States and India the kuwolsan incident has reinforced a view of North Korea as the world 's most dangerous source of weapons proliferation .
In 1999 North Korean leader Kim Jong Il expelled U.N. inspectors , abandoned the Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty and declared plans to build an atomic weapon .
U.S. intelligence officials stated that North Korean officials are continuing global trade in technology for weapons of mass destruction including instructions for making advanced missiles .
Successive U.S. administrations have condemned North Korea 's missile sales to such countries as Iran and Syria .
On 31 August 1998 North Korean officials launched a 3 - stage missile which heightened fears of advanced North Korean designs capable of reaching the U.S. mainland .
The first stage splashed down in the Sea of Japan , the second stage crossed the main island of Japan and the third broke up and traveled 3450 miles downrange and fell into the Pacific Ocean .
The missile test fueled work on a U.S. missile defense shield .
North Korean officials have defended the right to sell weapons and have stated that North Korean officials are not bound by international treaties restricting such trade .
North Korean officials have sold missiles and parts to Yemen which received 15 Scud missiles after the missiles were briefly intercepted by U.S. and Spanish naval crews off the Yemeni coast in December 1998 .
Libya appears to be the latest beneficiary of North Korean weapons .
Other nations including Iran , Pakistan and Syria are known to have received similar help .
The kuwolsan cargo attests to the existence of a gray zone composed of a combination of weak States , open borders , lack of controls and a market of buyers and sellers of weapons of mass destruction .
Small packages are sometimes delivered in the luggage of individual airline passengers such as a Taiwanese businessman arrested at Zurich 's airport in 2000 with North Korean missile parts in a rucksack .
Larger items are moved in freighters such as the kuwolsan while technical information and designs are accessible via the Internet .
Korea specialist with the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies in California Daniel pinkston stated that intercepting weapons and equipment is difficult but not impossible but that human exchanges of plans , data , and intellectual property are difficult to intercept .
2002-04-06
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; science ; energy ; weapons
A high - security Russian laboratory complex storing anthrax , plague and other deadly bacteria faces loosing electricity for lack of payment to the mosenergo electric utility .
A large repository of anthrax , plague and other deadly bacteria stored in a high - security Russian laboratory complex 100 miles south of Moscow is facing the threat of loosing electricity .
An official from the Moscow region 's mosenergo electric utility arrived recently at the Russian laboratory complex and threatened to turn off the electricity for lack of payment .
The Russian laboratory complex is a 90 - building campus and served as the location for Russia 's secret biological weapons program in the Soviet era .
An incorrect headline in the newspaper Izvestia stated that deadly viruses from a Moscow regional depository threaten Moscow .
There are no viruses at the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk .
At the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology there is every kind of deadly bacteria that was studied for use in the secret biological weapons program of the Soviet Union .
A large virus repository is located in Siberia .
Both Russian and Western officials have stated that it is unlikely that any public health threat would result from a power cutoff at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology .
Russian and Western officials have stated that there is enough uncertainty that they could not be positive a loss of power at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would not cause a public health threat .
General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology has quite reliable systems of protection in case of emergency .
General Nikolai N. Urakov is the longtime director of the the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology .
The State scientific center of applied microbiology has been working with Western scientists to convert the complex into a biomedical manufacturing site .
General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that the people at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology are scared by this threat of a sudden shutdown of electricity because it is a kind of psychological pressure on the people at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology .
General Nikolai N. Urakov stated by telephone that in the event of a power shutdown at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology scientists must destroy all bacteriological experiments under way .
General Nikolai N. Urakov would like the United States and Western countries that have contributed about 6 million United States dollars to the transformation of the former bioweapons complex to contribute another 500000 United States dollars per year to pay the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology 's electric bills and arrears .
An American scientist who works closely with the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology stated that the Russian government was responsible for paying for the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology 's electric bills .
Western aid for conversion of General Nikolai N. Urakov 's one time bioweapons laboratory peaked in 970000 because it was learned that Iran had made offers to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology to purchase its expertise .
Russian scientists and military leaders who now depend on Western financing to destroy nuclear , chemical and biological weapons have been known to orchestrate a sense of crisis to increase financing .
American scientist Randall Lee Beatty is working on the conversion of the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk .
Beatty stated that this threat to cut electricity to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology is a crisis .
Randall Lee Beatty is a Director of the International Science and Technology Center .
The International Science and Technology Center finances approximately half of General Nikolai N. Urakov 's budget to support about 350 Russian biowarfare scientists and technicians .
Randall Lee Beatty stated that it is known that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology has not paid its electricity bill for 14 months .
Randall Lee Beatty stated that the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology is one of the important archives for dangerous pathogens in the world and it would be a shame if those archives were destroyed for not paying the electricity utility .
Approximately 3000 strains of bacteria are stored at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology and many of the bacteria are stored in cryogenic casks cooled with liquid nitrogen and isolated from the environment by layered enclosures and oversize air - handling systems that all depend on electricity to function .
The greatest danger from a shutdown of electric power at the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would be the defrosting of live germs that are currently preserved in a frozen state .
A biological warfare expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies named Raymond zilinskas stated that the main threat from cutting power to the State Scientific Center of applied microbiology would be to the organisms themselves rather than that they might escape .
Raymond zilinskas stated that in the worst case the bacteria would be defrosted from minus 70 degrees and it would be a real mess to clean up afterward because it would not be known for certain whether all the bacteria was dead .
The confrontation between the mosenergo electric utility and the State Scientific Center of applied Microbiology in obolensk is another example of how the basic capitalist imperative for enterprises to be self - sustaining can clash in a dangerous way with the old remnants of Soviet weapons science .
Due to an overdue power bill in 000000 the Russian National Power Company cut off electricity to a strategic base where nuclear missiles stood on high alert .
The nuclear missile silos themselves did not lose power .
Armed troops marched to the substations and turned the power back on .
In 010100 and 010200 the national utility , United energy systems cut power to a number of military installations around Russia .
The military installations that lost power included the Russian space forces monitoring center on the Kamchatka Peninsula .
In most cases of military installations having their electricity cut off the electricity has been quickly restored .
Often investigations show that the tug of war with the utility forces the military to spend budgeted funds for electrical power instead of diverting money for other uses .
Some of the budgeted funds cut at times have included the building country residences for generals .
2004-07-24
Brazil ( BR )
International ; crime ; Government ; narcotics
Brazil to implement law allowing air force to target drug trafficking aircraft in Brazilian airspace .
US concerned over liability in the event of misidentification of a civilian plane .
Brazil announced that the air force will begin shooting down aircraft used in trafficking illegal drugs in Brazilian airspace .
The plan requires 8 precautionary steps before the order to shoot down a plane may be issued .
Prior to the policy taking effect late 20041000 a publicity campaign will notify ranchers and others of the need to file flight plans .
