Harithi was among the six al-Qaeda suspects killed in November 021100 in a missile attack by the US Central Intelligence Agency in the desert region of Al-Naqaa east of Sanaa in Marib province .
Yemen is the ancestral homeland of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and has been under pressure from the US government since the 010911 attacks on the US to crack down on presumed Al-Qaeda militants .
2004-02-03
Vietnam ( VN ) ; China ( CN ) ; Cambodia ( KH ) ; Taiwan ( TW ) ; India ( IN ) ; Hong Kong ( HK )
International ; crime ; health
Live poultry smuggling undermines WHO and FAO efforts to restrict bird flu spread in Asia .
FAO and WHO advise countries to tighten border security .
Smugglers are undermining international efforts headed by the UN World Health Organization ( WHO ) and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) to eradicate bird flu by trafficking illegal live poultry that threaten to spread the disease to new areas .
Attempts to halt bird flu spread --
Agriculture and customs officials have increased border checks throughout the affected region to halt illicit trade .
Recent arrests of live poultry smugglers have occurred at checkpoints .
Most affected Asian countries have banned the import and export of live and slaughtered poultry to prevent the movement of potentially infected chickens and ducks across borders .
Senior FAO Animal Production and Health Officer in Asia Hans Wagner stated --
The FAO is concerned and well aware that there is copious uncontrolled movement of animals between borders in some Asian countries .
Smuggling occurs chiefly across the Green or uncontrolled borders of Vietnam , Laos , Thailand , Cambodia , Myanmar and China is likely a source for spreading the flu and other diseases .
Authorities in Vietnam stated that smuggling of meat and fruit from China has increased drastically in the past year .
Vietnam has experienced 9 flu fatalities and is the country worst affected by the disease .
Preventing smuggling from Vietnam is difficult because the country 's extensive land borders with China , Laos and Cambodia are poorly controlled by a notoriously corrupt customs department .
Most nations have tightened border controls in accordance with FAO and WHO advisories .
20040120 Cambodian authorities detained 10 in the southern province of Ta KEO for importing over 150000 duck eggs from Vietnam .
Cambodia has continuously been combating chicken and egg smuggling from Vietnam and is on high alert .
20040202 Taiwan tightened security against smugglers following the discovery in 20031200 of H 5N1 in ducks smuggled from mainland China .
Taiwan has previously successfully controlled an outbreak of the milder H 5N2 flu strain .
Taiwanese coastguards increased patrols around the island and several island groups off the Chinese mainland .
Approximately 8000 poultry and pig farmers were vaccinated against human flu to prevent it mutating with bird flu strains .
India is free of the disease but has deployed hundreds of soldiers to the border with Myanmar .
Myanmar has no reported H 5N1 cases but Indian officials suspect that poultry could be smuggled through Myanmar from Thailand .
Thailand is one of the countries worst affected by the virus .
Hong Kong authorities have increased security along the border with China .
The Government stated that illegally slaughtered poultry imports increased by 15 percent from 2002 to 2003 .
The Customs and Excise Department reportedly seized 29266 kilograms of chilled or frozen poultry in 2003 compared with 1749 kilograms in 2002 .
Customs spokesman Richard law stated that the Department performs frequent checks on smuggling activities and have now increased efforts to inspect cargoes .
The H 5N1 flu strain has caused 13 deaths and reported outbreaks in 10 countries .
2004-02-09
China ( CN )
International ; Government ; technology ; business
Volkswagen AG rejects a Chinese newspaper report that it had put a stop to technology transfers of its Santana sedans to joint venture partner Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp ( SAIC ) .
The China Business Post reported 040209 that German auto giant Volkswagen AG had decided against the further transfer of a technical platform for the Santana sedan model to joint venture partner Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp ( SAIC ) .
Discontinuing these technology transfers would cause several millions of yuan 's of losses to SAIC .
The China Business Post said SAIC had invested large sums in the scheduled acquisition of the Platform , including acquiring an auto manufacturing plant in Yizheng city in eastern Jiangsu province .
The reported plan was for SAIC to produce a new sedan model designed on the Santana platform and with the car set to be launched in 040500 .
The China Business Post said the termination was due in part to Volkswagen 's adjustment of strategies regarding China and to ineffective communication with Volkswagen 's Chinese partners .
Volkswagen on 040209 rejected this China Business Post report that Volkswagen had put a stop to technology transfers of Santana sedans to SAIC .
Volkswagen group China spokeswoman Melanie Behrens said that the statements made in the China Business Post about the stop of knowledge transfer from VW to SAIC are not true .
Behrens said that Volkswagen does not know where these claims came from and is still working on the subject and trying to clarify the situation .
SAIC was not immediately available for comment .
SAIC also has a joint venture with US - based General Motors .
Analysts said this issue highlights what might be an increasing problem for foreign auto makers as China 's government increases support of domestic car companies in hopes of building stand - alone name brands .
Many Chinese car - makers with overseas venture partners have begun researching and developing cars independently .
Volkswagen is China 's number one passenger car - maker and has two joint ventures in China , Shanghai Volkswagen Automotive Company and Faw ( First Automotive Works ) Volkswagen Automotive Company .
Approximately 633000 of Volkswagen 's own cars were sold in China in 030000 , up from 510000 in 020000 .
SAIC sold a total of 800000 sedans in 030000 .
SAIC 's sedan sales topped other domestic auto makers , most of which are volkswagens and General Motors ' buicks .
2004-02-10
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya ( LY )
International ; proliferation
Libyan Foreign Minister Abdel Rahman Shalgam visited London during the first visit by a Libyan foreign minister since 1969 .
Shalgam stated that Libyan officials have had the materials to produce weapons of mass destruction but have decided to abandon Tripoli 's weapons of mass destruction program .
Foreign Minister Abdel Rahman Shalgam stated on 10 February 2004 during a visit to London that Libyan officials had all the means to make weapons of mass destruction but never decided to produce the weapons .
Shalgam 's visit to London is the first by a Libyan foreign minister since 1969 .
Shalgam stated during a press conference alongside British Foreign Minister Jack Straw that Libyan officials have had the equipment , the material , the know - how and the scientists to make weapons of mass destruction .
Shalgam stated that having flour , water and fire does not mean having bread .
Officials in Tripoli stated on 19 December 2003 that Libyan officials were abandoning Tripoli 's weapons of mass destruction program following months of secret talks with British and U.S. officials .
Shalgam stated the program 's abandonment was not imposed on Libyan officials .
Shalgam stated Libyan officials want American and British aid which would be more beneficial to Libya than making weapons of mass destruction .
Straw stated the Libyan officials ' decision was a courageous step and that the announcement of the decision paved the way for the former pariah state of Libya 's reintegration into the international community .
Straw stated that the announcement showed that problems of proliferation can with good will be tackled through discussion and engagement .
Straw stated the Libyan officials ' decision should benefit the whole region and make the world a safer place .
Straw stated that progress was being made on moves to dismantle Libya 's program following the announcement in December 2003 .
2004-02-16
United States ( US )
International ; terrorism ; government
A draft report prepared for the EU executive stated that the European Union should massively increase research on security issues in order to better protect civilians from terrorist attacks .
A draft report prepared for the EU executive stated that the European Union should massively increase research on security issues in order to better protect civilians from terrorist attacks .
The report is created by a working group including Research Commissioner Philippe Busquin and enterprise Commissioner Erkki Liikanen .
It recommends that up to two billion euros be spent per year on a vast pan - European research program .
The European Security Research Program ( ESRP ) would receive EU funding beginning in 2007 .
It is the most ambitious of several recommendations the group is likely to issue when it presents its final conclusions in two or three weeks .
The draft report recommends starting security research funding with one billion euros per year in 2007 .
It will then slowly increase the annual budget to two billion euros .
European spending currently lags behind the United States .
The United States ' Homeland Security Department receives one billion dollars annually plus research credit from the Defense Department .
The report stated that there is no reason why European Security Research should not be funded at a level similar to the United States .
The European Commission strategy allows for a preliminary period of studies and pilot projects from 2004 to 2006 .
It promotes EU - wide synergies in research on top safety issues including protection against bio - terrorism and improved networking between civilian and military authorities across the continent .
65 million euros have been earmarked for the 2004-2006 phase of the research program according to an exploratory Plan of Action presented by the Commission on February 3 , 2004 .
The Working Group on security research was formed last October and includes EU parliamentarians and experts from related industries in addition to the two commissioners .
2004-02-29
France ( FR ) ; Monaco ( mc )
terrorism ; international
French anti - terrorist judge calls terrorism serious threat despite dispersal and weakening of al-Qaeda .
Restraining extremist groups is becoming increasingly difficult because of how the groups are financed .
France 's top anti - terrorist judge Jean - Louis Bruguiere stated to AFP 29 February 2004 that al-Qaeda is still capable of inspiring people to carry out attacks despite being much weaker since the 11 September 2001 attacks and the U.S. - led war in Afghanistan .
Bruguiere has led the French legal effort against extremism and terrorism in recent years .
Bruguiere stated --
The global fight against terrorism is against an increasingly elusive enemy with access to funds virtually impossible to control .
The threat comes from long - standing members of al-Qaeda .
Al-Qaeda is an organization which still exists but has been significantly weakened by the neutralization and capture of a number of its members and of those in charge .
In an interview in Monaco Bruguiere called global terrorism a scattered and polymorphous threat .
Bruguiere was in Monaco attending a meeting of the international organization involved in Mediterranean political studies called club of Monaco .
Dozens of alleged members of al-Qaeda have been captured or killed since the group claimed responsibility for the 11 September attacks on New York and Washington D.C. but authorities have not been able to locate al-Qaeda 's leader Osama bin Laden or his top deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri .
On 24 February 2004 Zawahiri appeared in 2 taped messages broadcast by the Arab - language Al-Arabiya and Al-Jazeera television stations calling in remarks attributed to him for renewed attacks on the United States .
Bruguiere stated --
Restraining extremist groups particularly across Europe was becoming increasingly difficult because of how the groups are financed .
The networks operating in Europe benefit from micro - financing and not from macro - financing .
Fraudulent charge cards could be used to withdraw significant sums which are then distributed through micro - channels outside the classic financial circles and are practically impossible to detect .
Use of false credit cards is growing .
It is necessary to expand existing laws to combat the funding mechanisms .
All existing legal or institutional measures are insufficient to neutralize this threat .
Al-Qaeda is only 1 of many worldwide threats among the many radical Islamic organizations involved in an international jihad and sharing the al-Qaeda strategy that are pursuing regional options .
The groups are particularly active in Africa , Asia and Europe .
Bruguiere made these comments before going into a meeting with approximately 40 high - ranking or former top international officials .
Since the September 2001 strikes on the United States deadly large - scale attacks have occurred in other parts of the world .
Among the targets have been a synagogue in northern Tunisia , a nightclub in Bali , a hotel in Kenya and numerous locations in Chechnya and Russia .
Analysts have warned that Iraq could become a breeding ground for terrorist organizations if a political solution is not found soon .
The United States and Britain invaded Iraq nearly a year ago despite massive international opposition .
2004-03-05
Lao People 's Democratic Republic ( LA )
International ; human rights
Amnesty International urges Laos to treat surrendered ethnic Hmong rebels humanely while Lao officials claim there are no rebels and no insurgency .
The rights group states that Lao troops promised rebels amnesty and a living area if they surrender but has received conflicting reports as to whether the Lao Government has upheld this agreement .
On 05 March 2004 Amnesty International called on the Lao Government to ensure that 100s of ethnic Hmong anti - government insurgents and their families who had reportedly surrendered were treated humanely .
From its London headquarters Amnesty International issued a statement saying that the Lao People 's Democratic Republic has international obligations in this regard under the Geneva Conventions and the 2 UN covenants .
On 03 March 2004 the U.S. government - funded network Radio Free Asia reported --
Up to 700 insurgents and their relatives and 8 rebel commanders surrendered after government troops surrounded several northern holdouts in late February 2004 .
Troops used leaflets and megaphones to help communicate to the rebels that authorities would grant them amnesty and a special living area if they surrendered .
Approximately 300 people surrendered near Luang Prabang after traveling on foot from farther north and between 300 and 400 people surrendered in Xieng Khouang province .
Amnesty International stated it had received conflicting reports as to their reception and treatment by the authorities .
Lao Foreign Ministry Spokesman Yong Chanthalangsy denied that anyone had surrendered insisting also that there were no rebels in the impoverished communist nation .
Yong Chanthalangsy told AFP that no one surrendered , that there are no rebels and there is no war in Laos .
Yong Chanthalangsy stated that there are many people coming out of the forests to take advantage of Lao poverty eradication programs .
Following a series of deadly highway ambushes and bomb blasts the Lao Government called in August 2003 on Hmong and others whom they called ethnic minority bandits to lay down their arms , to come out from the forest and to rejoin society .
The Lao Government warned that failure to do so would result in heavy consequences .
Small bands of ethnic minority rebels predominantly Hmong remain from the CIA - sponsored guerrilla army mobilized to wage the United States ' secret campaign in Laos during the Vietnam War .
Some 300000 Hmong fled to Thailand after the Communist takeover in Laos in 1975 but the remaining rebels have continued a low - level , ineffective insurgency for nearly three decades .
The Lao military has been accused by human rights groups of using harsh and often brutal tactics to eliminate them .
Amnesty International called on the Lao Government to provide UN agencies and other non - governmental organizations access to all those who have put down their arms in order to assist with basic humanitarian needs .
Amnesty International stated --
Longer term assistance with their reintegration into Lao society will also be needed .
It is essential that neutral observers are given access to these groups of former rebels in order to independently assess their situation and the veracity of ongoing claims of serious human rights violations being made by overseas ethnic Hmong groups .
The Lao Government should seize this opportunity to find a peaceful solution to decades of fighting and the high human cost on all sides of the conflict .
In January 2004 , U.S. - based Lao exiles warned that Lao forces had launched a new offensive against 1000s of Hmong rebels and civilians and accused the communist regime of using starvation as a weapon of war .
2004-03-29
Korea , Republic of ( KR ) ; China ( CN )
International ; business ; technology
French energy and transport company Alstom may sign a contract to build a high - speed rail link between Beijing and Shanghai .
Alstom is in competition with Japanese and German countries for the contract .
29 March 2004 French energy and transport company Alstom president Patrick Kron announced --
Alstom may sign a contract to build a high - speed rail link between Beijing and Shanghai .
Alstom is competing against Japanese company Shinkansen and German company ice for the contract .
The tender has not been announced by Chinese authorities .
Alstom seeks to develop further business in Asia .
Alstom is well - placed to receive the Beijing - Shanghai rail link contract .
23 March 2004 the high - speed ktx train launched in Seoul .
The ktx was manufactured in South Korea using technology transferred by Alstom .
Kron stated --
Alstom is willing to negotiate a technology transfer deal in China .
A similar technology transfer deal was signed in 1994 for the ktx .
Technology transfer was Alstom 's entry - ticket to Asia .
Alstom wishes to develop local partnerships to reduce costs .
Beijing - Shanghai rail link represents China 's potential for development in transport including freight , subways and energy .
In 2003 China ordered as much energy equipment as the rest of the world in total .
The Beijing - Shanghai rail link would be 1,000 - kilometres ( 620 - miles ) long .
Building the Beijing - Shanghai rail link would cost an estimated 100 million yuan ( 12 million dollars ) .
The Beijing - Shanghai rail link would reduce traveling time from Beijing to Shanghai from 12 to 5 hours .
Alstom is involved in large - scale infrastructure projects the Three Gorges Dam in southwest China and Daya Bay Nuclear thermal power station near Hong Kong .
Beijing is China 's capital .
Shanghai is China 's business hub .
Shanghai is located on China 's eastern coast .
2004-04-24
Germany ( DE ) ; Europe ; France ( FR )
International ; economy ; business
European Union COMPANIES THREATEN job relocation to the ten countries that will join the EU on May 1 , 2004 .
It has caused concern and criticism from the current states that ignored the impending signs for several years .
European Union COMPANIES THREATEN job relocation to the ten countries that will join the EU on May 1 , 2004 .
It has caused concern and criticism from the current states that ignored the impending signs for several years .
Unemployment is a chronic problem for several EU states .
The issue in Germany has increased tempers to near the boiling point .
The DIHK Federation of Chambers of Commerce in March increased tensions by backing a campaign for companies to stop supporting Germany .
DIHK President Ludwig Georg Braun advised companies not to wait for better policies .
Companies should act and take advantage of the opportunities offered by Europe 's eastward expansion .
Braun 's remarks were called unpatriotic by German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Parliament President Wolfgang Thierse .
On April 1 , 2004 Siemens said it might move jobs from its mobile phone and cordless telephone factories in Kamp - lintfort and bocholt in Germany to Hungary .
Costs are 30 percent lower in Hungary .
Former French Finance Minister Francis Mer warned companies in January that they have a duty to think of their country .
Otherwise they will be stateless .
France is urged to increase research funding and support for innovations as a way to deal with the problem .
Junior Trade Minister Francois Loos said that French auto plants in Poland have earned more than two times the amount invested in them .
Concern focuses on the loss of service and qualified jobs .
Economists are divided .
Some say that many transferable posts have already moved abroad and others predict that the phenomenon will develop further .
New Finance Minister Nicolas Sarkozy was looking at measures to favor those who do not relocate .
On April 22 , 2004 Loos stated that there are no French companies to Loos 's knowledge that are halting production in France to open a factory in the eastern countries .
These kinds of relocations correspond to a bygone era .
Eastern advantages in lower labor astern Europe and Asia .
The Italian Employers Federation cofindustria sees opportunities for investment and trade with the new EU members .
Several are close by .
Deputy Trade Minister Adolfo Urso welcomed the entry of neighboring Slovenia .
Urso said it would provide an open door to the Balkans .
Many small and medium sized Italian companies have already begun establishing themselves in eastern Europe , for the most part in Romania .
2004-00-00
Albania ( al )
International ; Government ; crime
Desiring admission into the European Union , Albanian government increased efforts against drug trafficking by strengthening laws , seizing illegal drugs , and investigating possibly corrupt police officials .
Under the pressure of the European Union the Albanian Government has escalated its fight against drug trafficking by preparing a new strategy to halt the smuggling of hashish and heroin over Albanian territory from Asia towards the West .
A recent EU report on Albania stated the situation in Albania , which has remained an important country for the traffic of narcotics , is worrisome .
The report suggested the Tirana government adopt an efficient strategy in the Government 's efforts against drug trafficking .
Albanian interior minister Igli Toska stated --
The fight against drug trafficking will be the Albanian government 's main challenge in 2004 .
The Albanian Government has been working on a project of national strategy which will require international support and cooperation .
Albania 's geographic position , Albania 's trade with Turkey and Greece , and the situation after the Kosovo war are all elements Albanian criminal groups profit from , thereby making Albania an important stop for the transit of narcotics .
In July 2004 the Albanian government plans to present a set of anti - Mafia laws which will allow confiscation of property belonging to persons involved in criminal and illegal activities .
Albanian justice minister Adrian dvorani stated the anti - Mafia laws also provide for the special protection of witnesses or people involved in illegal trafficking who decide to testify and will enable a more efficient strategy .
Albanian officials aspire to EU membership .
The Albanian government has made a significant development in the government 's fight against drug smugglers in 2004 .
In 2003 Albanian police infiltrated an international drug network operating between Kosovo , Macedonia , Albania and Italy and controlled by the Kosovo Albanian and Turkish criminal groups linked with the Calabrian Mafia organization N'Drangheta .
In May 2004 approximately 100 policemen -- 25 of them in top positions -- were dismissed on suspected ties with organized crime .
60 others have been investigated on similar charges .
Toska stated there will be no smugglers without corrupted policemen and Toska announced tougher measures against policemen and security officials linked with criminal groups .
The EU report quotes the names of several Albanian politicians directly or indirectly involved in drugs trafficking but no measures have so far been taken against the politicians .
Albanian police forces have seized more than 200 kilos ( 440 pounds ) of heroin and around 8 tons of cannabis between November 2003 and May 2004 , double that which was seized in 2003 .
Experts say the figures of drugs seized are insignificant compared to the estimated quantities of narcotics that are smuggled through Albania .
International Police experts based in Tirana estimate the value of the narcotics in transit at over 2 billion dollars ( about 1.6 billion euros ) per year .
Experts estimate the amount smuggled through Albania makes up approximately 25 to 30 percent of the narcotics smuggled into the European market from the Balkans .
Albanian police official Xhavit Shala stated Albanian smugglers are linked to the international criminal organizations like ( the Italian ) sacra Corona UNITA , Cosa Nostra , the Turkish , Russian , Macedonian and Kosovar mafia , and the Colombian drug cartels .
Bujar Mema of the Albanian Interpol Office stated that drug smugglers have reappeared due to increasing consumption of narcotics in Europe and the production of opium from Afghanistan , which has reached the level of the years before the US intervention in 2001 with 3600 tons produced in 2003 .
2004-06-26
Myanmar ( MM )
Military ; narcotics ; media
Myanmar 's military rulers burned approximately 250 million dollars worth of illegal drugs to mark the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking .
Myanmar 's General Khin yii stated that opium production has been reduced in Myanmar but that methamphetamine production is rising .
On 26 June 2004 Myanmar 's military rulers burned over 710 kilograms of opium , 353 kilograms of heroin , 2.6 million methamphetamine pills , and other drugs in a make - shift incinerator set up at Yangon 's drugs Elimination Museum .
International diplomats witnessed the incineration .
The incinerated drugs had a total value of approximately 247 million dollars .
Myanmar 's military rulers incinerated the drugs to mark the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking .
One of the heads Myanmar 's Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control , General Khin yii , stated the drug incineration on 26 June 2004 was the 18th time the regime had incinerated tons of illegal narcotics .
Khin yii stated that 14.45 billion dollars worth of drugs have been destroyed since the drug destroying events began in 1990 .
Khin yii stated that opium production and poppy cultivation has declined since 1990 but that methamphetamines are replacing opium as the main choice of traffickers .
Khin yii stated that stimulant tablets are becoming a threat but did not elaborate on the extent of methamphetamine production or trafficking .
The United Nations stated that opium production has declined by 24 percent in Myanmar since 2003 .
In March 2004 the United States stated that while Myanmar had reduced poppy cultivation Myanmar remained the world 's 2nd ranked supplier of opium from which derivatives such as heroin are made .
Thai government stated in early 2004 that Thai government was considering building a high - security fence along Thailand 's border with Myanmar in a bid to stop smugglers trafficking illegal drugs into Thailand .
2004-07-19
Nicaragua ( NI )
dissent ; government
Nicaragua commemorated the 25th anniversary of the Sandinista revolution that toppled the dictatorship of Anastasio Somoza but imposed a Cuban - style leftist regime .
On 19 July 2004 Nicaraguan Cardinal Miguel Obando accepted apologies and issued a pardon to former Sandinista leader Daniel oretga .
Nicaragua commemorated the 25th anniversary of the Sandinista revolution .
The Sandinista revolution ended the dictatorship of Anastasio Somoza and imposed a Cuban - style leftist regime .
A mass commemorated those who killed during the Sandinista revolution and those killed during the Sandinista war against US - funded contra rebels in the 1980s .
During the mass Ortega crossed himself and asked Obando to forgive him .
Obando stated that the pardon that has been offered and accepted is an indispensable premise of a stable and durable peace .
The Sandinistas have been accused of persecuting Catholic priests during the 1979-1990 Sandinista rule .
The Sandinistas accused the Church of anti - government activities .
The Sandinista National Liberation Front ( FSLN ) is currently Nicaragua 's primary political opposition group .
The Sandinista group is named after Agusto Cesar Sandino .
In the 1930s Agusto Cesar Sandino fought the US marines that supported the government of Anastasio Somoza 's father .
Former FSLN guerrilla fighter Dora Maria Tellez stated that the Sandinista revolution was one of the most influential events in his life .
Tellez was in the FSLN 's national leadership .
The Sandinista Government made broad social and political reforms .
Illiteracy in Nicaragua fell from 53 to 12 percent .
Homes were given to 90000 poor families .
An agrarian reform program distributed 2 million hectares of land to small farmers .
Throughout the 1980s a proxy war between the US and the USSR was fought in Nicaragua .
In a war against US - funded right - wing contra rebels --
Approximately 50000 people on both sides were killed .
Sandinista financial reserves were drained .
1000s of land mines are still on Nicaragua 's northern border .
Nicaraguans are uneasy with the Sandinista legacy .
Former vice president under Ortega Sergio Ramirez stated --
There are plenty of open wounds from the Sandinista legacy .
Nicaragua has not reconciled how to approach the anniversary of the Sandinista revolution .
More than half of Nicaragua was not yet born when the FSLN ended Somoza 's nearly 50 year - old dictatorship in 1979 .
Former guerrilla leader Eden pastora states that the revolution was one of the most beautiful revolutions in Latin America .
Pastora left the Sandinistas and led rebels in a failed attempt to topple Sandinista regime .
Many other Sandinista leaders left Ortega and Ortega 's hard - line supporters in the 1990s .
The Sandinista party remains well run .
The Sandinista party has been out of power since 1990 .
Nicaragua is run by right - wing parties .
Current Nicaraguan President Enrique Bolanos stated that the Sandinista party has nothing to celebrate because they did much damage to Nicaragua .
Leftist groups from across the Americas met over the weekend to discuss regional issues as part of the anniversary event .
2004-07-19
China ( CN ) ; Taiwan ( TW )
terrorism ; dissent ; Telecom ; international
Suspected Chinese hackers have attacked the website of Taiwan 's military news agency .
The hackers replaced the Agency 's homepage with the slogan reunification with Taiwan in 2021 .
20 July 2004 -- Suspected Chinese hackers have attacked the website of Taiwan 's military news agency .
The Taiwan Defense Ministry announced that --
The attack took place on the night of 19 July 2004 .
The attack took place 2 days before the Taiwanese air force was scheduled to practice emergency landings on a freeway .
The hackers replaced the Agency 's homepage with the slogan reunification with Taiwan in 2021 .
The agency affiliated with the Taiwan Defense Ministry was forced to close down its website .
An identical attack occurred in June 2004 .
Suspected Chinese hackers attacked Taiwan President Chen Shui - bian 's pro - independence Democratic Progressive Party 's website .
Last week Hong Kong 's Wen Wei Po daily newspaper quoted Chinese military sources as stating that Taiwan must rejoin China or face military action within 20 years .
Wen Wei Po stated that --
China 's threat is the first - ever ultimatum to reclaim sovereignty over Taiwan .
China issued an ultimatum to Taiwan in response to Taiwan 's recent pro - independence provocation .
Unnamed military sources stated --
Former Chinese President and Central Military Commission Chairman Jiang Zemin discussed using force to achieve Taiwan 's reunification in a speech at a Beijing military conference .
Taiwan 's emergency landing practice is a measures against an attack by China .
T 2 French - made Mirage 2000-5s are scheduled to land , refuel and load ammunition on the road in Tainan , southern Taiwan .
Defense Ministry spokesman Huang Suey - Sheng stated that practice landings are designed to review the tawainese Air Force 's capability in using freeways for emergency landings and logistic support in case of war .
China has increased rhetoric since Chen 's re - election in March 2004 .
China reiterated a long - standing vow to take Taiwan by force should Chen attempt to claim formal independence .
China has considered Taiwan part of Chinese territory since China and Taiwan split at the end of a civil war in 1949 .
China awaits China 's reunification with Taiwan .
Wen Wei Po newspaper is pro - Beijing .
2004-07-20
Malaysia ( MY ) ; China ( CN )
International ; weapons ; technology ; government
Malaysia has agreed in principle to purchase medium - range missiles from China .
China will transfer technology related to very short - range air defense to Malaysia in return .
Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said 040720 that Malaysia has agreed in principle to purchase medium - range missiles from China .
The Bernama news agency said that under the pact between China National precision Machinery Import and Export Corp. and two local companies , cnpmiec would transfer technology on production of the FN - 6 shoulder - launched missiles if Malaysia purchases cnpmiec 's medium - range ks - 1 A missiles .
Included were provisions for special test facilities , tools , manufacturing process documentation , training and technical support .
Razak said after signing a memorandum of understanding on the purchase that if the Malaysian government gives its full commitment , details of the procurement and offset program will be finalized later .
Razak was quoted by Bernama as saying that the procurement of the surface - to - air missiles was part of the Malaysian Armed Forces modernization program and would be made under the 9th Malaysian plan from 060000-090000 .
The cost of the weapons were not revealed .
Cnpmiec President Wang bingyan said China had also offered to conclude the ks - 1 A transaction on flexible payment terms , including counter - trade , barter and deferred payments .
Bernama said Malaysia had procured very short - range air defense systems from Russia , Pakistan and Britain under the 8th Malaysian plan from 010000-050000 .
The Government has dramatically increased major arms procurements in 030000-040000 , ranging from Russian Sukhoi fighter jets and British missile systems to French submarines and Polish attack tanks .
The Government of Malaysia has denied the weapons build - up could spark an arms race in the region and says the purchases are simply designed to upgrade defenses and that there are no aggressive intentions .
2004-07-28
Pakistan ( PK ) ; China ( CN )
International ; energy
Pakistan approves installation of second nuclear power plant to be supplied by long - time ally and defense supplier China .
The plant will be constructed next to an existing plant and is projected to be operational in 7 years .
Prime Minister - in - waiting Shaukat Aziz stated 28 July 2004 that Pakistan 's top economic body approved the installation of a second nuclear power plant to be supplied by China .
Finance Minister Aziz stated on national television that the National Economic Council has approved phase 2 of the Chashma nuclear power project to cost approximately 51 billion rupees ( 880 million U.S. dollars ) .
The plant will generate 300 megawatts of electricity .
A statement issued by the Executive Committee on the National Economic Council said --
It had approved installation of a nuclear power plant approximately 174 miles south of Islamabad at Chashma , Mianwali .
The project comprises a nuclear steam supply system , a turbine generator set and auxiliary equipment including electrical , mechanical and civil work .
The project anticipates technology transfer with the ultimate goal that the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission would be self - sufficient in all aspects of designing , installation , construction and operation .
The plant will be constructed next to an existing plant also supplied by China and operational since 1999 .
The second plant will be ready to generate electricity in 7 years .
The agreement to install the plant was signed in May 2004 by China National Nuclear Corporation President Kang Rixin and Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission Chairman Pervez Butt in Islamabad .
Pakistan has relied heavily on long - time friend and ally China for its defense needs since 1990 when the United States stopped supplying it with military hardware because of its nuclear program .
Pakistan confirmed it had nuclear weapons in May 1998 when it matched tests conducted by India .
2004-08-07
Japan ( JP ) ; China ( CN )
International ; technology
Chinese hackers are suspected of attempting to hack the website of Japanese war shrine Yasukuni Shrine .
This hacking attempt has coincided with the Asian Cup final , which leads some analysts to believe that the suspected attacks are run - up to the football final between Japan and China .
The website of a controversial war shrine in Toyko called Yasukuni Shrine experienced many abnormal visits from abroad on August 7 , 2004 .
The abnormal visits caused the website to have browsing problems .
At one point more than 30000 visits to the Yasukuni Shrine website were made at the same time .
The homepage of the website of Yasukuni Shrine was not damaged by the hacking attempts .
No official was immediately available from Yasukuni Shrine to confirm the reports .
Yasukuni Shrine and Japanese government offices may have come under cyber attack from Chinese hackers in the run - up to the Asian Cup football final between Japan and China in Beijing on August 7 , 2004 .
The suspected cyber attacks on Yasukuni Shrine 's website coincided with rowdy behavior by Chinese fans who have repeatedly booed the Japanese football team and anthem as the Japanese football team entered the Asian Cup final against the host China .
A pro - Beijing newspaper in Hong Kong stated that Chinese hackers were mobilizing 1900 people to wage cyber attacks on more than 200 official websites in Japan and Taiwan from August 1 , 2004 until August 8 , 2004 .
The Wen Wei Po stated on August 6 , 2004 that the Chinese hackers were thought to have been organized by the China Federation of defending the Diaoyu Islands .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and his predecessors have angered Asian neighbors who suffered under Japanese occupation by making pilgrimages to Yasukuni Shrine .
China , Republic of Korea and the Democratic Republic of Korea were especially angered .
Yasukuni Shrine is widely seen in Asia as a symbol of Japan 's militarism .
Yasukuni Shrine honors the Japanese who died in wars , including the World War II leaders hanged by the US led allies as war criminals .
The Diaoyu Islands are a group of East China Sea islets claimed by Japan , China and Taiwan .
2004-11-04
Republic of Korea ( KR ) ; Taiwan ( TW )
International ; technology ; government
Taiwan 's promos dismissed reports that its technology transfer agreement with South Korea 's Hynix might falter due to concern from South Korean government over helping foreign competitors .
The companies have exchanged information and established a long - term strategic alliance to share technology .
Taiwan 's Promos Technologies Inc. dismissed reports 04 November 2004 that its technology transfer agreement with South Korea 's Hynix Semiconductor Inc. might falter due to concern from the Government of South Korea .
A promos official stated to AFP --
Reports that the South Korean government is concerned that Hynix would be helping foreign competitors by establishing a partnership with promos are not true .
The pending agreement is unaffected .
Promos will adopt Hynix 's 90 nanometer technology at its new plant in central Taiwan starting in fourth quarter 2005 .
Both makers of dynamic random access memory ( DRAM ) chips have exchanged information on Hynix 's 90 and 70 nanometer technologies .
The company Promos stated that it has passed on to Hynix its expertise in 12 - inch ( 300 millimeter ) production .
The 2 DRAM makers signed a memorandum of understanding ( MOU ) in 2003 to initiate a long - term strategic alliance in technology licensing , foundry services and development of new generation memory production processes .
Hynix stated that the new alliance would represent nearly one quarter of the world 's DRAM output .
The MOU states that Hynix will license to promos certain proprietary technology for DRAM stack processes while promos offers Hynix its 12 - inch fabrication capacity .
2005-02-22
Afghanistan ( AF )
Narcotics
Afghanistan 's new special narcotics force seized and destroyed more than four tons of drugs , seized equipment and weapons , and detained 10 people in a major operation in southern Helmand province .
The Afghanistan Interior Ministry made a statement 050222 that approximately 47 kilograms ( 103 pounds ) of brown heroin , 830 kilograms of opium , 3.5 tons of hashish and an opium press had been destroyed by the special Narcotics Force .
The statement also said the special Narcotics Force also seized 47 weapons and detained 10 people in Helmand province .
No further details were given and the ministry did not say whether the 10 people arrested were traffickers or ordinary farmers who were growing the narcotics .
Afghanistan 's special Narcotics Force was launched 040000 after being trained by British commandos .
Afghanistan is now the leading producer of opium and grows 87 percent of the world 's supply of the narcotic according to UN figures .
Afghanistan had a 64 percent increase in opium production in 040000 and has also become a base for heroin refining over 040000 .
The Afghan government is receiving support by the international community in taking a harder line on the issue .
President Hamid Karzai declared a holy war on drugs shortly after being elected president in 041000
The US has pledged $ 780 million to battle Afghanistan 's burgeoning drug industry .
British Foreign Minister Jack Straw said during a visit to Kabul 040213-040219 that London would double its funding for fighting the drug industry problem from $ 50 million dollars to $ 100 million starting from the next financial year beginning 050400 .
2005-03-17
Japan ( JP )
International ; technology ; dissent
Cyber attacks target Japanese Foreign Ministry homepage .
A Japanese official blames South Korean hackers for the attacks , citing the passage of a Japanese resolution that stressed the Japanese government 's claim to an island chain controlled by South Korea .
A massive amount of information flooded the homepage of the Japanese Foreign Ministry , www.mofa.go.jp , beginning at 9:50 am ( 0050 GMT ) on 17 March 2005 .
Access to the website has been erratic .
Japanese foreign press secretary Hatsuhisa Takashima termed the flood of information a cyber attack and stated that officials are working to fix the problem .
Kyodo News cited a Japanese government source and stated the latest attack may have come from South Korea .
On 16 March 2005 a Japanese local assembly passed a resolution stressing the Japanese government 's claim to a small island chain controlled by South Korea .
Anti - Japanese protests occurred in Seoul after the passage of the resolution .
Japanese government websites have come under occasional cyber attacks especially from countries which Japan invaded in the first half of the 20th century .
In January 2005 , administrators of the Yasukuni Shrine dedicated to Japan 's war dead stated the Yasukuni Shrine 's website had been the target of Internet attacks .
Most of these attacks were via e-mails written in Chinese .
In 2000 , hackers accessed Japanese government websites and left messages in Chinese and English ranging from insults to attacks on Japan 's wartime past , after Japanese conservative groups held a forum in the western city of Osaka to deny the 1937 massacre in the Chinese city of Nanjing by Japanese troops .
2005-03-21
Taiwan ( TW )
International ; crime ; business ; technology ; Telecom
Taiwan 's chip company United Microelectronics Corp ( UMC ) announced on March 21 , 2005 that it would obtain a 15 percent stake in China - based chipmaker hejian technology through a compensation package .
Taiwan 's chip company United Microelectronics Corp ( UMC ) announced on March 21 , 2005 that it would obtain a 15 percent stake in China - based chipmaker hejian technology through a compensation package .
The stake was valued at 3.5 billion Taiwan dollars ( 110 million US dollars ) and the investment goes to the core of cross - Straits investment ties .
Both companies are being investigated in Taiwan for alleged breach of trust .
UMC Chairman Robert Tsao said the company had submitted a letter to Taiwan 's Investment Commission asking for assistance in transferring the stake .
It said it was compensation for previous assistance .
UMC manufactures cutting - edge microchips .
The chips are installed in a wide range of computers and electronics found in mobile phones , televisions and cars .
The technology is highly prized in Taiwan .
Market analysts believe the assistance involved a technology transfer from UMC to hejian and the compensation through the stake represents a payment .
No cash changed hands .
Tsao said the letter followed a verbal promise made by hejian technology to pay UMC a reasonable amount of compensation .
That included a commitment to merge the two companies .
Tsao said no formal written agreements had been signed .
Both companies would next seek a strategic partnership if the Investment Commission approved the deal .
UMC is the world 's second largest wafer foundry and has recognized its investment in hejian which had previously been denied .
Taiwan authorities lifted a ban in March 2002 on mainland - bound investment in eight - inch ( 200 millimeter ) silicon wafer plants .
This followed assurances from potential investors that the island would not lose out on transferred technology .
Prosecutors raided the homes and offices of UMC executives in February 2005 as part of a probe into the alleged illegal supply of funds , technology and human resources to hejian .
Hejian was founded in November 2001 with capital of 350 million U.S. dollars .
Its Chairman Hsu Chien - hua has been barred from leaving Taiwan after being bailed out of police custody for 10 million Taiwan dollars .
Tsao and UMC vice chairman John hsuan have also been named as defendants in on - going investigations .
UMC has never sought government approval for China - bound investments .
The company has previously called hejian technology a friendly company while denying any financial ties between the two .
Only UMC peer Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. has received official approval to build a plant in Shanghai .
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. is the world 's biggest contract microchip - maker .
2005-03-22
India ( IN )
International ; technology ; military
India is expected to close a $ 2 billion dollar deal to buy 6 French Scorpene submarines in a few days .
This deal has been in process for several years and will strengthen India 's military capability .
Vice - Chief of Naval Staff Yashwant Prasad in India stated March 22 , 2005 that India will close a $ 2 billion dollar deal under which the Indian Navy will buy 6 French Scorpene submarines in a few days .
The deal has been in process for several years .
The deal will also include a technology transfer that will allow the Scorpene submarines to be manufactured under license in India at the mazagaon docks off the western city of Bombay .
The goal of the submarine deal is to strengthen a weakness in India 's conventional military capability .
A source in the Prime Minister 's office stated that the deal was on the agenda of the next security cabinet meeting on March 29 , 2005 .
A naval official stated that the final approval for the project was discussed when French Chief of Defense Staff General Henri Bentegeat visited India in February , 2005 .
A naval official stated that once the deal is approved the first submarine will not be ready for induction for at least 6 years .
The naval official also stated that by the time the first submarine is ready for induction some of the older boats in India 's fleet of 16 diesel - electric submarines will be ready for decommission .
2005-05-19
Cambodia ( KH ) ; China ( CN ) ; Lao People 's Democratic Republic ( LA ) ; Myanmar ( MM ) ; Thailand ( TH ) ; Vietnam ( VN )
Narcotics ; international ; politics ; crime
Mekong countries meet in Cambodia to pledge new anti - drug commitment and revisit 1993 anti - drug pact
20050519 ministers and officials from countries surrounding the Mekong River ( Cambodia , China , Laos , Myanmar , Thailand and Vietnam ) met to discuss the progress of a 1993 pact aimed at stemming illicit drugs in the sixth semiannual Ministerial Meeting in Siem Reap , northwestern Cambodia .
The UN Office on Drugs and Crime ( UNODC ) stated that the countries adopted the Siem Reap Declaration as a renewed commitment to act against the region 's expanding drug trade .
The countries discussed exchanging information , controlling chemicals needed to make illicit drugs , controlling amphetamines , providing drug treatment and sustainable alternative development .
5 projects worth 10.6 million dollars are currently in operation under an action plan implemented as part of the 1993 pact with UNDOC .
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen opened the meeting and stated --
Regional cross - border crime flourishes due to increasingly open borders and more amicable economic and social relations among countries in the region .
Producing and trafficking illegal drugs is only 1 aspect of organized transnational crime .
Money Laundering is a particular concern for the Mekong Sub - region because this money will fund terrorist activities .
Cambodia is considered an increasingly important trans - shipment point for illicit drugs in the region .
Myanmar is the 2nd largest opium producer globally and the United States has criticized Myanmar for failing to meet international anti - drug commitments .
Siem Reap is the gateway town to the Angkor Wat temple complex .
2005-06-01
United Kingdom ( GB )
terrorism ; technology ; Telecom
Experts warn of new cyber attack encrypting documents and extorting payment for decryption .
1 case reported with potentially many in future .
Software protection companies warn of a new form of cyper - attack called ransomware .
If it installs successfully , ransomware encrypts text files and displays a ransom note demanding 200 dollars to supply decryption software to restore the data to its original form .
20050601 anti - virus program manufacturer Symantec stated on its website ( http://www.Symantec.com/avcenter/venc/data/Trojan.pgpcoder.html ) that the attacking program is a Trojan horse .
Trojan horses do not replicate from machine to machine as viruses do .
Symantec stated that the ransomware enters the computer via weaknesses in the victim 's Web browser and then scans the hard drive and encrypts any text - based documents found .
20050604 the British weekly New Scientist stated that 1 case of ransomware has been discovered which may pioneer a new and dangerous generation of malicious software .
The known ransomware program is titled pgpcoder in an attempt to undermine the legal , popular and highly secure encryption product pretty good privacy .
New Scientist stated that the California web - filtering company websense discovered pgpcoder and notified the FBI .
Pgpcoder used an unsophisticated algorithm to encrypt the data so that a computer consultant was able to decode the documents easily .
New Scientist stated that future virus writers may compel victims to pay by encrypting files using military - grade systems .
Ransomware 's weakness is that the demand includes a traceable contact email address and electronic bank account .
2005-06-03
Syria ( SY )
International ; weapons ; military
Israeli military officials stated that Syria test fired three Scud missiles a week ago in an act of defiance to the United States and the United Nations , The New York Times .
One of the missiles broke up over two Turkish villages .
It caused no injuries .
On June 3 , 2005 Israeli military officials stated in the New York Times that Syria test fired three Scud missiles a week ago in an act of defiance to the United States and the United Nations .
One of the missiles broke up over two Turkish villages .
It caused no injuries .
The officials stated the missile tests were normal .
It was Syria 's first since 2001 and caused embarrassment to Turkey .
Syria decided to make the missile tests public because the U.S. silence about them was unsettling .
The Israeli officials in Tel Aviv told the daily that the missile tests were part of a Syrian missile development project using North Korean technology .
The three missiles were the older Scud B that has a range of 300 kilometers ( 185 miles ) and two Scud D 's with a range of 700 kilometers ( 435 miles ) .
The missiles are designed to deliver air - burst chemical weapons .
The official said the launchings on May 27 , 2003 were Syrian President Bashir al-Assad 's response to U.S. and UN pressures that forced al-Assad to withdraw Syrian troops from neighboring Lebanon .
This was in the wake of the February assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Harari .
A senior Israeli military official said the tests are probably needed for the missile project but Bashir is taking a risk and sending a message .
Anti - Syrian journalist Samir kassir was killed June 2 , 2005 when a bomb exploded under kassir 's car in Beirut .
The attack is blamed on the pro - Syrian regime and widely condemned at home and abroad .
Syria angrily denied the accusations through its official news agency , SANA .
The Israeli officials said the Syrian missiles were launched from northern Syria Newar minakh .
One was sent about 400 kilometers ( 250 miles ) to southernmost Syria near the Jordanian border .
The missile that that broke up was launched southwest toward the Mediterranean , over the Turkish province of Hatay and shed debris over two villages there .
