Boeing Corporation is required to supply 40 F - 15 k jets to the Republic of Korea by 2009 .
Boeing Corporation vice president and general manager Michael Marks stated that the Government of the Republic of Korea decided wisely by picking the F - 15 k instead of the Rafale made by French firm Dassault Aviation SA .
The final sale price , spin - off trade , and technology transfer conditions will be decided in a future negotiation .
The Republic of Korea stated that it will argue to decrease the price from an estimated 4.4 billion dollars .
Boeing Corporation has not yet satisfied a defense ministry demand that spin - off deals with other firms based in the Republic of Korea meet 70 percent of the total cost .
The United States initially made a pledge of approximately 2.9 billion dollars , representing 65 % of the total cost , to local contractors .
Vice president of Boeing Corporation Joseph Song stated that the 70 percent offset trade level will be met .
Song also stated a level of 80 percent was possible .
Dassault Aviation SA is trying to overturn the selection of the F - 15 k through legal action because it states the Rafale is more modern and cheaper .
Boeing Vice President for communications Douglas Kennett stated disappointment by Dassault 's legal action .
Kennett also stated that Dassault should respect the defense ministry decision .
Boeing Corporation is an aerospace company based in the United States .
2002-04-23
Cambodia ( KH ) ; Vietnam ( VN )
International ; narcotics
Cambodia and Vietnam finalized an agreement to stop Asian and European drug traffickers .
They will focus on the import of cheap chemical drugs made in Thailand .
On April 23 , 2002 Cambodia and Vietnam finalized an agreement to stop Asian and European drug traffickers .
They will focus on the import of cheap chemical drugs made in Thailand .
Deputy Secretary General of Cambodia 's narcotics authority lour Ramin said Cambodian and Vietnamese officials had arrested Asian nationals and Europeans who were attempting to trade heroin through Cambodia into Vietnam .
Ramin said the narcotics Authority will continue to combat and reduce illegal drug trafficking .
Drug consumption among Cambodian adolescents has increased .
Ecstasy and other drugs are accessible at nightclubs in the capital at a low cost .
Cambodia and Vietnam agreed to share intelligence , cooperate between agents and create border liaison offices in a two - day meeting to be held later this week .
Ramin stated that there is an agreement to construct cross - border liaison offices in both countries to combat current drug trafficking .
The agreement includes exchanges of experience in organizing treatment and rehabilitation for drug addicts .
It would also be used to combat people smuggling between Cambodia and Vietnam .
Vietnamese police detained two women on suspicion of human trafficking and smuggling Vietnamese virgins to Cambodian brothels .
They were less than 350 dollars each .
Cambodia has for many years been used as a transit point for heroin and opium trafficking .
The Government maintains it has adopted strict policies to fight the illegal trading of narcotics .
2002-05-17
Malaysia ( MY )
International ; Government ; terrorism ; crime
Senior officials from the 10 - member Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) drew up a joint draft statement to be adopted by security ministers next week .
The statement stated that closer cooperation amongst the nations was needed to counter terrorism .
17 May 2002 -- in a draft statement the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) agreed closer cooperation was needed to counter terrorism and transnational crime .
The statement will be adopted by security ministers next week .
An anonymous ASEAN senior official stated --
The ASEAN ministers ' joint statement addressed the need for closer cooperation .
Proceeds from organized crime syndicates often fund terrorist activities .
ASEAN has a plan to counter terrorism together .
The plan will be implemented within 3 months .
The meeting has been fruitful .
The draft statement stated --
ASEAN Ministers are concerned about the links between transnational crime and terrorism .
The link between transnational crime and terrorism lends greater urgency to ASEAN 's efforts to combat transnational crime .
ASEAN senior officials agreed on the draft after 2 days of intense discussion .
The draft will be submitted to ASEAN 's respective ministers to discuss and adopt .
From 19 May 2002 the interior ministers of the ASEAN countries will meet for 2 days in Kuala Lumpur .
The work program includes an exchange of information and development of multilateral or bilateral legal arrangements to facilitate apprehension .
ASEAN officials agreed to enhance cooperation and coordination in law enforcement and intelligence sharing .
ASEAN officials agreed to develop regional training programs .
ASEAN officials held an expert group meeting in January 2002 in Bali , Indonesia .
The Expert Group Meeting in Bali produced a work program that was discussed and finalized by the ASEAN senior officials who have been meeting in Kuala Lumpur since 16 May 2002 .
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations has 10 member countries .
2002-05-17
Myanmar ( MM ) ; Thailand ( TH ) ; Lao People 's Democratic Republic ( LA )
International ; narcotics ; politics
Myanmar is the world 's largest producer of illegal opium but has limited financial and technical resources for ending the drug trade .
Myanmar has asked the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the international community to assist in these efforts .
Myanmar proposed a ministerial meeting with Thailand and Laos to discuss effective ways to end drug trafficking .
Myanmar proposed talks to be held in June 2002 or July 2002 .
According to the US State Department anti - narcotics report published earlier in 2002 --
Following the destruction of poppy fields in Afghanistan , Myanmar has become the world 's largest producer of illegal opium .
Myanmar is the primary source of amphetamine - type stimulants in Asia .
Director of Myanmar 's International Relations Department Colonel sit Aye addressed reporters at a two - day meeting of senior officials from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) .
Aye announced --
Myanmar , Thailand and Laos must cooperate to effectively end the drug trade .
Myanmar does not yet have confirmation from Thailand and Laos .
Myanmar has difficulty ending drug - planting activities due to lack of funds and technical expertise .
The majority of poppy growing in Myanmar takes place in a remote , mountainous area along the borders of China and Thailand .
ASEAN and the rest of the international community are responsible to help fight drug production and trafficking .
Myanmar is optimistic that drug planting in the country would be eradicated with the introduction of alternate cash crop planting in April and tough policing .
Fears that drug money is being used to finance terror groups are unfounded .
ASEAN members are Brunei , Cambodia , Indonesia , Laos , Malaysia , Myanmar , Philippines , Singapore , Thailand and Vietnam .
Myanmar , Thailand and Laos are known as the Golden Triangle countries .
2002-05-18
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR ) : Pakistan ( PK ) ; Afghanistan ( AF )
International ; economy ; politics
At a UN - sponsored conference Iran and Pakistan pledged to assist neighboring Afghanistan by increasing private sector activity .
On 18 May 2002 at a UN - sponsored conference Iran and Pakistan pledged economic assistance to Afghanistan .
Afghanistan neighbors Iran and Pakistan .
Iran and Pakistan plan to increase private sector activity with Afghanistan .
Iranian Finance and Economy Minister tahmaseb Mazaheri announced --
Increasing Afghanistan 's trade with Iran and Pakistan will reinstate Afghanistan 's economy after 23 years of war .
Key sectors of cooperation between Iran and Afghanistan include Oil and Petro - chemical industries , building and road construction , agricultural machinery and manufacturing .
Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan must collaborate to end the illegal opium trade .
Pakistani Finance and Economy Minister Shaukat Aziz announced --
Pakistan is eager to cooperate with Afghanistan in international and regional efforts .
Pakistan has taken steps to facilitate movement of people and goods between Pakistan and Afghanistan for economic reconstruction .
Key sectors of cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan include agriculture , rural development , civil aviation , finance and banking , engineering services , judicial and legal services and the establishment of small and medium - sized firms .
Pakistan will offer College places for teachers , doctors , nurses and paramedics .
Pakistani trade with Afghanistan has increased since the war ended .
Pakistan expects private sector activity between Iran and Afghanistan to further develop peace .
Deputy head of Afghanistan 's interim government and Minister of Finance Hedayat Amin - Arsala stated --
Afghanistan expects private sector activity to aid Afghanistan 's reconstruction .
Afghanistan is preparing liberal economic legislation that will facilitate foreign trade and private sector activity .
Afghanistan seeks political stability , economic development and a legislative and institutional base .
Afghanistan plans to serve as a bridge between Central Asia and Southeast Asia and seeks help from the Economic Cooperation Organization .
Iranian Foreign Minister Kamal Kharazi stated the meeting must reinforce the friendship and speed up regional cooperation between Iran , Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Speakers addressed opium production and trafficking in Afghanistan .
Opium crops were suppressed by the later rule of the Taliban .
Opium has reemerged since a US - led military alliance toppled the Taliban in December 2001 .
Afghan interim government head Hamid Karzai and the international community promote a crop substitution program for farmers .
Head of United Nations Development Program Mark Malloch Brown announced concerns about Afghan interim government head Hamid Karzai 's ability to police the drug trade .
He stated --
Afghanistan is in a state of flux .
Afghanistan has security problems .
Iran and Pakistan have long fought over Afghanistan .
The Taliban ruled Afghanistan from 1996-2001 .
Pakistan backed the deposed Taliban .
Iran funded Afghanistan 's rebel Northern Alliance .
The Northern Alliance played a major roll in unseating the Taliban .
Together Iran and Pakistan have hosted more than 3 million Afghan refugees during years of civil war .
Afghan refugees are now starting to return to Afghanistan after civil war .
Deputy head of Afghanistan interim government Hedayat Amin - Arsala visited Tehran for the first time .
Members of the Economic Cooperation Organization include the Central Asian countries and Turkey .
2002-05-21
Viet Nam ( VN ) ; Taiwan ( TW )
International ; narcotics ; crime
Taiwan national executed in Vietnam for drug manufacture and trafficking .
Police in the strict communist country discovered his methamphetamine manufacturing plant disguised as a soap factory and sentenced him to death in 1997 .
On 22 May 2002 officials stated that Taiwan National Chen Chi Tien was executed by firing squad in Vietnam 's 8th execution of a foreigner .
Chen was sentenced to death in 1997 for the illegal manufacture of methamphetamines disguised as a soap manufacturing plant .
Court officials in the commercial capital stated that Chen was executed in Ho Chi Minh City on 21 May 2002 .
The businessman was arrested with several Vietnamese accomplices in 1995 after 170 kilograms ( 375 pounds ) of methamphethamine chlorohydrate were found stored in the downtown soap factory Chen had established in 1994 .
Police established that Chen had already exported at least 4 shipments of the drug before his illegal manufacturing operation was discovered .
Chen traveled to Vietnam regularly since 1992 .
The crystalline amphetamine derivative is Smokable and has a very large illegal market in East Asia .
The drug is also known as ice or shabu .
Vietnam has executed 1 Western national to date .
The Western national executed was a Vietnamese - Canadian woman whose execution in 2000 caused a diplomatic controversy with Canada .
The other foreigners executed were Asians .
1 Hong Kong National was executed in 1995 and 2 in 1998 .
Lao nationals were executed in 1999 and 2000 .
A Singaporean was executed in 1999 .
More foreign nationals receive the death penalty from the courts but most have their sentences commuted on appeal .
3 Australian nationals of Vietnamese origin are currently awaiting trial on drug charges which carry the death penalty .
Vietnam 's communist authorities impose the death penalty for a total of 29 different offenses including murder , treason , sexual offenses against children , serious cases of armed robbery , various economic crimes and drug trafficking .
Drug trafficking resulted in 55 death sentences in 2001 , 85 in 2000 and 76 in 1999 .
Under Vietnam 's strict drug laws anyone found in possession of 300 grams ( 10 ounces ) or more of heroin or 10 kilograms ( 22 pounds ) or more of opium is considered guilty of trafficking .
2002-06-10
Myanmar ( MM )
Narcotics ; media
AFP , members of international and local press , and United Nations representatives and diplomats witnessed Myanmar destroy illicit drugs the authorities captured .
Junta spokesman Colonel Hla Min stated that Myanmar became poor because of their trying to be so clean .
Min took pictures of millions of dollars worth of poppy seeds , refined drugs and precursor chemicals curling up in smoke .
AFP , members of international and local press , and United Nations representatives and diplomats witnessed Myanmar destroy illicit drugs the authorities captured .
Min said Myanmar would be one of the richest countries in the region if they were as corrupt as outsiders claimed .
Hla Min stated that illicit drugs worth some 50 billion dollars have been destroyed by authorities since 1974 .
Min said it was enough to pay Myanmar 's national debt ten times over .
Drug - burning ceremonies are regular events in Myanmar .
Critics argue that it does not reflect the massive drug industry in the country .
Resident Representative of the UN 's Drug Control Program ( UNDCP ) Jean - Luc Lemahieu said this one is different .
Almost 102 tons of poppy seeds were burnt in the capital of Myanmar 's northern Shan state at this ceremony .
The ceremony also included 249 kilograms of opium , 102 kilograms of morphine powder , three kilograms of solid morphine and various precursor chemicals .
Lemahieu said that this ceremony had less processed opium and heroin than opium seeds .
It made it more symbolic and indicated the willingness of those directly involved to eliminate the opium .
The destruction forms part of the Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control 's project new destiny .
It aims to prevent poppy cultivation by distributing seeds for substitution crops .
Farmers have been asked to grow seven kinds of alternative crops across 21,969 acres ( 8,891 hectares ) of land instead of opium .
Global narcotics authorities declared Myanmar the world 's largest producer of opium in 2001 .
They accounted for as much as 60 percent of global supply .
Myanmar beat Afghanistan because the Taliban militia 's enforced ban on opium poppies decreased Afghan production by 90 percent .
Critics said the Myanmar regime overlooks much of the production and trafficking in drugs by ethnic insurgent groups .
In particular the largest armed drug militia in the world the United Wa State Army .
Myanmar 's Home Minister Colonel Tin Hlaing said the success of project new destiny is evidenced by the tons of poppy seeds that have been turned in rather than seized .
Hlaing stated his confidence in the drug scourge that threatens the world will not find a place in Myanmar if the local population is committed to this sort of cooperation .
Lauk Kai is one of the regime 's showpieces for its previous crop substitution programs .
It has expanses of rubber trees , fruit orchards and paddy where poppies used to thrive .
The poppies yielded the raw ingredient for heroin .
Lauk Kai is located in the infamous Golden Triangle .
Reformed drug lord and leader of the Kokang phone Kyar Shin pledged commitment to the government program .
The Kokang comprise the majority of the population in Myanmar .
Phone Kyar Shin predicts that starting today there will be no destruction ceremony in the future because no more poppy will be grown .
Phone Kyar Shin said this at another ceremony that destroyed more than 12 tons of poppy seed .
Phone Kyar Shin appealed for help from the international community .
The international community is reluctant to give help .
Phone Kyar Shin requested the distinguished guests to understand Myanmar 's situation more and give practical advice and support .
UNDCP 's Lemahieu when asked by AFP what impact project New Destiny had on the international community hoped it would have a positive impact and that some additional funds would come forward .
Lemahieu said so much depends on the political situation in this country .
There is hope for further political change following the May 6 release of pro - democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi from 19 months house arrest .
The regime seeks the United States approval for the project .
Its global announcement comes via the regime 's newly - appointed public relations firm in Washington .
The US charge d'affaires Priscilla Clapp said maybe because it has to be a multi - faceted , sustained effort for it to work and that there should be measurable results .
2002-06-21
Russia ( RU ) ; Iran ( IR )
International ; Government ; weapons ; technology ; proliferation
Ecological organization Greenpeace stated on June 21 , 2002 that Russia helped Iran to develop nuclear weapons by building Iran 's Bushehr atomic power station .
The Russian branch of Greenpeace distributed a report at a press conference of Russia 's atomic energy ministry .
The ministry conceded that the Russo - Iranian accord on the plant 's construction does not require the repatriation of the nuclear fuel .
The report stated that the recycling of nuclear fuel from Bushehr is not mentioned in the accord between the Russian and Iranian governments on the construction of the plant .
Greenpeace member Vladimir Chuprov said the ministry had practically admitted that Iran will not return to Russia the spent nuclear fuel from the power station and Russia 's only use for Iran is to equip itself with nuclear weapons .
The atomic energy ministry confirmed the report 's existence and strongly denied Greenpeace 's accusations .
Ministry spokesman Nikolai Shingarev told AFP that Russia would only supply nuclear fuel to Iran on condition that it be returned to Russia after its use .
Shingarev said Russia is currently in negotiations with Iran .
This issue will be settled before the power station comes into operation .
Shingarev said the accord on Bushehr was signed before Russia passed a law permitting the import of nuclear waste last year .
This explains why the accord makes no mention of the return of the fuel .
Shingarev said it is very difficult to make a nuclear weapon from the plutonium in this fuel .
The United States and Israel fear that the Russian - Iranian nuclear cooperation could enable Tehran to acquire the technology needed to build nuclear weapons .
Russia dismisses this accusation .
Iran ordered the power station in 1994 at a cost of nearly 800 million dollars ( 860 million euros ) from Russia .
Iran has said the plant is being built only for civilian energy purposes and allows regular inspections of Bushehr by the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Experts say Bushehr could in theory become operational as early as September 2003 .
Currently it is equipped with a single reactor .
German group Siemens pulled out of the long - standing project at the request of the German government after Iran 's 1979 Islamic Revolution .
US President George W. Bush raised the US 's concerns about Russian nuclear cooperation with Iran at the summit in Moscow last month between Bush and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin .
2002-06-26
Myanmar ( MM ) ; Cambodia ( KH ) ; Afghanistan ( AF ) ; China ( CN ) ; Indonesia ( ID ) ; Thailand ( TH )
Narcotics ; crime ; international
Asian countries participated in United Nations International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on 26 June 2002 by executing drug traffickers and burning narcotics worth 1 billion U.S. dollars .
Participating countries adopted tough positions in order to demonstrate commitment to eradicating the problem .
The China News Service reported that on 25 June 2002 14 people were sentenced to death in Chengdu , China and that 9 of those sentenced were immediately taken to the execution grounds and shot .
The China News Service report stated that in recent years in Chengdu the number of drug crimes has increased .
The report stated that the drug situation in Chengdu is becoming serious as drug criminals are establishing connections with criminals outside the province .
Chengdu is the capital of the southwest Sichuan Province .
At least 36 more drug criminals have been reported executed in China in the past week to mark World Anti - drugs day .
In total China executed at least 50 drug criminals as part of the observance .
Indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri adopted a strict position calling for the death sentence for drug traffickers .
Megawati stated --
Life sentences and other prison sentences are no longer sufficient for those who distribute drugs .
No sentence is sufficient other than the death sentence .
The military junta of Myanmar burned narcotics it said were worth more than 1 billion U.S. dollars in its latest attempt to convince critics it is committed to eradicating their drug problem .
The junta accompanied by military pageant ignited an incinerator into which workers shoveled bags of heroin bricks and amphetamines .
Myanmar 's top ruler Senior General Than Shwe and international diplomats attended the burning ceremony in Yangon .
3027 kilograms ( 6650 pounds ) of opium , 240 kilograms of heroin , 434 kilograms of marijuana , 34.9 million amphetamine tablets , 4 million ephedrine tablets and 2865 kilograms of powdered ephedrine were burned .
Myanmar anti - drugs official Brigadier - General Zaw Win stated in a speech before the burning that the Myanmar government is aware of the serious threat that drugs pose and considers it a national duty to do all it can to eradicate the problem .
U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency officials helped conduct spot checks to verify the destruction .
Myanmar is the world 's largest producer of illicit opium according to the latest U.S. State Department anti - narcotics report .
Myanmar is also the primary source of amphetamine - type stimulants in Asia .
Critics claim narcotics trade finances Myanmar 's military government but the Government states it is doing all it can to restrict drug trade and wants more international help to do so .
In Thailand Princess ubolratana presided over the burning of more than 870 tons of seized drugs .
Health Minister Sudarat Keyuraphan reported to Princess ubolratana that the event was meant to demonstrate the Government 's strong determination to eradicate the drug problem .
In Kabul on 25 June 2002 the Head of the United Nations Drug Control Program ( UNDCP ) Bernard Frahi stated --
War - torn Afghanistan continues to be the top supplier of heroin to Europe and the producer of almost all the opiates consumed in Central Asia .
Afghanistan is the source of approximately 70 to 90 per cent of the heroin found in European markets .
No country is immune from the issue of drug - abuse .
Newly - elected president of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai has vowed to eradicate poppy cultivation from Afghanistan .
In Cambodia several hundred people marched through the capital Phnom Penh to appeal for an end to growing drug use .
United Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention official Bengt juhlin stated that people are uniting this day to demonstrate to the world a commitment to fighting drug abuse .
Juhlin stated that Cambodia 's past reputation as 1 of the few Southeast Asian countries without a drug problem is no longer accurate as drug abuse in the country is rapidly increasing .
2002-06-29
India ( IN )
International ; military ; war and conflict ; weapons ; technology
Indian government tests Russian rocket amid efforts to increase defense against possible Pakistani attacks .
Indian Defense Ministry has increased spending on defense purchases .
On 29 June 2009 Indian government test - fired the multiple - role Russian - made rocket system known as Smerch from a missile testing range in the eastern state of Orissa .
Officials said a contingent of Russian military experts was also at the site of the launch .
One Ministry official stated the smart rocket has a maximum range of 90 kilometers ( 56 miles ) and is capable of striking targets in the air or on land .
Indian government has developed an array of guided and ballistic missiles and is reportedly experimenting with a maritime cruise missile that can carry nuclear warheads .
Indian Defense Secretary Yogendra Narain stated --
There is a missile threat to India .
Indian government is giving top priority to a system for missile defense .
Indian government is simultaneously upgrading land and air surveillance systems .
Indian Defense Ministry has increased defense spending for new purchases by 33 percent .
There has been a sharp increase in Indian Defense Ministry 's purchases of military hardware including night vision devices , unmanned aerial vehicles and other anti - terrorism devices .
Narain also stated the Indian Defense Ministry has sought government approval to allow the Ministry to carry forward unutilized military budgetary allocations from 1 fiscal year to another .
Narain stated that carrying forward the military budget was a long - standing convention in France and Italy .
The defense ministry has been criticized for not utilizing funds made available every year for acquisitions of latest equipment including the missile defense shield .
The Hindu newspaper stated Indian government had already acquired an early warning system to counter the threat of a missile attack by Pakistani government .
Narain stated on 28 June 2002 that Indian government had already acquired Israeli Green Pine radars that are capable of simultaneously track several in - flight missiles .
The Hindustan Times daily reported that India had petitioned Israeli Government to allow the Government of New Delhi to either buy or borrow the Israeli government 's new Ofek - 5 spy satellite and acquire Israel 's Arrow anti - missile systems .
The Times reported that Israeli government rejected both requests and that Israeli government stated the Ofek - 5 could not be moved from the satellite 's Iran - Syria - Iraq trajectory and the Arrow was still being developed .
The Times also reported that Israeli defense ministry 's director general Amos Yaron visited New Delhi twice last month in response to the Indian Defense Ministry 's requests .
Narain did not reveal names of countries India is negotiating with to acquire the missile shield .
On 28 June 2002 Narain stated that New Delhi was discussing the issue with the United States .
Indian government 's attempts to upgrade systems to counter missile attacks occurs as Indian and Pakistani governments have placed about 1 million troops on India - Pakistan borders since December 2001 .
In May 2001 Pakistan test - fired 3 missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads .
Since independence from British rule in 1947 Indian and Pakistani governments have fought 2 of 3 wars over Kashmir .
Indian and Pakistani governments nearly engaged in a fourth conflict in 1999 .
Indian and Pakistani governments each conducted nuclear tests in May 1998 .
2002-07-23
Malaysia ( MY ) ; Indonesia ( ID ) ; Philippines ( PH )
International ; terrorism ; Government ; politics
Malaysia proposes expansion of anti - terrorism pact with Indonesia and the Philippines to entire ASEAN .
Terrorism is expanding across Southeast Asia .
The Malaysian Government proposes the expansion of an anti - terrorism pact with Indonesia and the Philippines to encompass the remainder of Southeast Asia .
Malaysian Foreign Minister Syed Hamid Albar stated that other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) will be encouraged to accede to the pact at talks next week with ASEAN foreign ministers in Brunei .
Syed Hamid stated that Thailand , Laos and Singapore had expressed interest in joining the pact .
Malaysian defense analyst dzirhan mahadzir stated --
Cooperation by poorer countries may be stymied by financial constraints and a perception that terrorism does not directly affect these countries .
An ASEAN pact is beneficial in the long - term but will be difficult to implement because national security issues and interstate rivalry may make some of ASEAN 's 10 members wary to divulge information .
ASEAN must agree on a definition of terrorism to identify the common enemy .
20020500 senior ASEAN members Malaysia , Indonesia and the Philippines signed an anti - terror security pact intended to initiate the eradication of terrorism from the region .
The 3 countries share sea borders frequently used by pirates and criminals in evading pursuing troops .
The pact includes plans to trace and freeze terror funds and exchange information to curb cross - border piracy , drug trafficking , illegal entry and illegal trafficking of women and children .
Syed Hamid stated that after 20010911 countries should exchange information that may affect transnational crime such as funds of terrorists that may be kept in other countries or third party information to combat the greater threat of international terrorism .
Mushahid Ali of the Singapore - based Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies stated --
The trilateral pact between Malaysia , Indonesia and the Philippines constituted a constructive first step .
Indonesia and other ASEAN members must more proactively monitor terrorist activities and establish a concrete mechanism among national agencies for the protracted conflict .
20020500 ASEAN security ministers at a meeting in Kuala Lumpur failed to agree on a definition of terrorism but agreed to increase cooperation among State enforcement agencies and endorsed the use of detention without trial for suspected militants in Malaysia and Singapore .
Objections were raised concerning Malaysia 's proposal to include State terrorism in the definition .
Dzirhan stated --
The agreement among Malaysia , Indonesia and the Philippines may have been aimed at ingratiating the countries to the US rather than combating terrorism .
Since the pact was signed no progress has occurred .
The creation of a formalized security structure in combating terror will be decelerated by the ASEAN 's model of acting on consensus .
Officials stated that after the meeting in Brunei 20020728-20020801 ASEAN and its major western trading partners are expected to demand freezing of terror funds and stronger counter - terrorism cooperation .
Dozens of suspected terrorists allegedly linked to al-Qaeda in Malaysia , Singapore and the Philippines have revealed the existence of a regional Islamic militant group called the Jemaah Islamiyah , which also operates in Indonesia .
Southeast Asia is now suspected as a potential new haven for al-Qaeda operatives escaping US and allied attacks in Afghanistan and elsewhere .
2002-10-15
Vietnam ( VN )
International ; Telecom ; dissent ; government
Vietnam announces that all Vietnam - based websites will require a license to operate in Vietnam in order to control the dissemination of reactionary or pornographic material online .
On 021015 officials stated that all Vietnam - based websites will require a license to operate in Vietnam in new Vietnamese government efforts to control the dissemination of reactionary or pornographic material online .
Do Quy Doan stated to Agence France - Presse that the newly - imposed website licensing rule seeks to prevent harmful information from threatening Vietnamese culture and national security .
Do Quy Doan is a spokesman for the Vietnamese Ministry of Culture and Information .
Do Quy Doan stated that the Vietnamese Ministry of Culture and Information will take 30 days to license eligible websites that do not include pornographic material , information that harms the national security or encourages violence and anti - government activities .
Diplomatic , foreign and press institutions must obtain permission from the Vietnamese Foreign Affairs Ministry before applying for licenses permitting them to distribute content online in Vietnam .
Do Quy Doan stated that any Vietnam - based website must clearly display the website licensing number and date on its homepage .
Writers and intellectuals in Vietnam have increasingly employed the Internet to distribute news or opinion banned from the tightly - controlled Vietnamese state press .
The number of Internet users in Vietnam is rapidly increasing and could reach 5 percent of its 79 million residents by 050000 .
As of 020600 there were only 175000 registered Internet users in Vietnam .
Registered Internet users in Vietnam increased by 30 percent from 010000 to 020600 .
Most Vietnamese gain Internet access via the Vietnam 's 4,000 - plus Internet cafes .
It is estimated that the number of people with online access in Vietnam may be as many as 1 million .
2002-10-18
Iraq ( IQ )
proliferation ; international
Atomic Energy Agency director States it would be difficult for Iraq to conceal a nuclear weapons program if international inspectors were allowed to return .
Inspectors would perform various tests , visits , and interviews and their presence alone in the country would be a deterrent .
On 18 October 2002 International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) director Mohamed ElBaradei stated it is unlikely that Iraq could conceal a nuclear weapons program if it allowed international inspectors to return .
ElBaradei stated that once inspectors were working in Iraq their presence alone would be a deterrent to developing nuclear weapons .
ElBaradei stated to reporters at his headquarters in Vienna --
It is difficult to conceal a nuclear program if thorough inspections are performed because nuclear products always have a signature .
Traces are always visible if highly enriched uranium or plutonium were used .
ElBaradei stated that inspectors would perform environmental sampling , gamma radiation surveys from helicopters , internal periodic visits to all capable sites and interviews with all former nuclear scientists to confirm that they are not working in the nuclear program .
ElBaradei stated that the IAEA could not give a 100 percent guarantee but that the presence of inspectors would be a good deterrent and a good mechanism for detection .
ElBaradei stated --
It is necessary to control imports to Iraq because of the risk that Iraq is receiving nuclear material from outside the country .
There must be physical protection of all nuclear material particularly in the former Soviet Union .
There must be strong unanimous support by the UN Security Council to force Iraq to comply with IAEA inspection .
The IAEA must be given as much intelligence information as possible to guide inspectors to anything that should be inspected or to any item hidden from inspectors .
The Security Council has been meeting in open session to discuss the Iraq issue before the vote on conditions under which UN weapons inspectors will return to Baghdad to verify Iraqi assertions that it does not possess nuclear , chemical or biological weapons .
UN weapons inspectors departed Baghdad in 1998 .
2002-11-02
Bangladesh ( BD )
International ; politics ; Government ; leader ; human rights ; dissent
Bangladesh opposition claims a crime crackdown being carried out by the army is becoming political witchhunt , and human rights groups claim fundamental rights are being violated .
Bangladesh 's main opposition leader Sheikh Hasina Wajed said 021102 that an army crackdown on crime was turning into a political witchhunt and targeting her Awami League party .
Troops were ordered into the streets more than 2 weeks ago to eliminate rampant crime but human rights groups claim fundamental rights are being trampled .
Newspapers and rights groups put the toll of those who have died in police and military custody at 16 .
Officials say more than 3400 people have been taken into custody since the crackdown began 021017 .
The government has confirmed the deaths of 12 people due to heart attacks .
Relatives allege some suspects have been tortured in custody .
The US government and London - based Amnesty International have also expressed concern about the custodial deaths .
Amnesty urged a prompt and fair investigation by an independent body into the deaths .
Sheikh Hasina told reporters at the airport on her return from a private trip to the United States and Europe that initially it appeared to be a neutral anti - crime drive and the opposition Awami League party welcomed it .
Hasina said the crackdown is gradually turning into one to eliminate the Opposition .
Hasina wants the military to arrest real criminals and not violate Bangladesh 's constitution and human rights because of concern about such violations in the name of anti - crime drive .
Sheikh Hasina said the military has to operate within the laws of the land as no one is above the law .
Police said the army hadon 021101 arrested former state minister and Awami League lawmaker talukder Abdul khaleque in southwestern Khulna city soon after he spoke at a news conference against the deployment .
The Daily Star newspaper reported that an imam and a local leader of fundamentalist group Jamaat - e - Islami were also arrested on 021101 in Khulna .
Former minister and Awami League lawmaker Sheikh Fazlul Karim Selim and Sheikh Hasina 's Political Secretary ex - minister Saber Hossain Chowdhury were arrested 021000 along with independent MP Hemayet Ullah aurango .
Selim , Chowdhury and aurango are being detained under the strict 740000 Special Powers Act allowing detention for 120 days without charge .
Sheikh Hasina questioned how 3 of the Awami League party 's ex - ministers could be terrorists .
Hasina was apparently unaware of the claims of the arrest of the Jamaat leader when adding that it is an open secret that the Jamaat - e - Islami and the Jamaat - e - Islami student wing have weapons and wondering why none of the Jamaat - e - Islami has been arrested so far .
Hasina said the Awami League party would raise the issue when parliament reconvenes 021114 .
Bangladesh 's Prime Minister Khaleda Zia 's Islamist - allied government includes 2 cabinet ministers from the Jamaat .
Zia 's administration denies the drive is politically biased and stresses that activists from ruling Bangladesh Nationalist Party ( BNP ) have also been detained .
A young BNP activist died 021101 in a hospital after being interrogated by the army .
Police said the activist was wanted in a number of cases .
2002-11-04
Russia ( RU )
terrorism ; international ; politics
The Russian government hailed cooperation of Arab countries in fighting terrorism and said not one Arab state backed the Chechen separatists who are accused of waging a terrorist campaign .
Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC ) Secretary General Abdel Rahman al-Attiya held talks on 021104 .
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman Alexander Yakovenko said afterward that not a single Arab country supports rebels in Chechnya .
Yakovenko said the Russian Government finds it inadmissible to link individual States or religions with terrorism or extremism and is grateful to those Arab states which are trying to cooperate with Russian law enforcement agencies to cut channels for funding terrorist organizations .
The Russian government has consistently sought to portray its campaign against a separatist insurgency in Chechnya as part of the global war on terrorism and says that rebel groups are receiving backing from the terrorist Al-Qaeda network and from shadowy Islamic radical groups based in countries such as Saudi Arabia .
A senior Kremlin official said last week that the Russian Government might ask the GCC State Qatar to extradite Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev .
Yandarbiyev is a former Chechen Vice - President and aide to rebel president Aslan Maskhadov .
The Russian government accuses Yandarbiyev of involvement in the 041000 hostage - taking in a Moscow theater .
Russian government spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said Qatar 's response would demonstrate the extent of that country 's willingness to cooperate in the fight against international terrorism .
Yakovenko said that stronger ties between Russia and the GCC States could play a special role in combating international terrorism .
Ivanov said al-Attiya 's visit will contribute to increased cooperation between the Russian government and the six Arab monarchies of the Gulf region .
Ivanov said the Russian government wanted to strengthen its ties with the Gulf countries and that these ties have begun to strengthen recently .
Ivanovalso said the Russian government would like to develop them further and particularly in areas of mutual interest .
The Russian government has traditionally been close to the Arab side in the Middle East conflict and has spoken strongly against US armed intervention against Iraq in the stand - off over disarmament .
Yakovenko said that Al-Attiya 's talks with Russian government officials 021104 and 021105 were likely to focus on oil issues and noted that both the Russian government and the Gulf countries are interested in stable world prices .
Yakovenko said the main emphasis of the talks will be on Russia 's possible involvement in the implementation of regional projects run by the Council and said that there will be particular emphasis on finding peaceful , political and diplomatic ways to settle the Iraqi issue .
Al-Attiya also plans to hold talks with economic ministers and senior officials such as the head of the Chamber of Commerce Yevgeny Primakov and the Chairman of the Russian employers ' association Arkady Volsky .
2002-11-10
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; France ( FR )
International ; politics ; terrorism ; military
The Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov are to travel to Paris to meet the French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin and Defense Minister Michele Alliot - Marie
On 021110 the ITAR - TASS news agency stated that Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov are to travel to Paris on 021112 to meet the French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin and Defense Minister Michele Alliot - Marie .
The Itar - Tass news agency citing Defense Ministry sources stated that the 4 ministers will hold the first meeting of the Franco - Russian Cooperation Council on defense issues on 021115 .
The Itar - Tass news agency citing Defense Ministry sources stated that in the Franco - Russian Cooperation Council meeting that much attention will be paid to the international fight against terrorism and that the Russian ministers are planning to brief the French ministers on the situation in the breakaway republic of Chechnya and on the border with neighboring Georgia .
The Itar - Tass news agency stated that the Russian ministers also plan to discuss nuclear non - proliferation issues and will confirm that the Russian government has not breached any international agreements in Russia 's cooperation with Iran and North Korea in the areas of nuclear technology and the sale of weapons .
The Russian and French ministers also plan to discuss the the risks of the militarization of space following the withdrawal by the United States from the 720000 Anti - Ballistic Missile Treaty .
The Russian and French ministers are also expected to meet with French President Jacques Chirac to discuss the work of the Franco - Russian Cooperation Council .
French Prime Minister Jean - Pierre Raffarin is expected to receive the Russian Prime Minister Mikhail kassyanov on 021118 in Toulouse during the 8th Franco - Russian Intergovernmental Seminar .
It is expected that the 8th Franco - Russian Intergovernmental seminar will be attended by many ministers from both France and Russia .
2002-11-12
Tanzania ( tz )
International ; health
Tanzanian Vice President Ali Mohamed Sheni said on November 12 , 2002 that Africa needs its own health forum to create research priorities to effectively combat disease on the continent .
Tanzanian Vice President Ali Mohamed Sheni said on November 12 , 2002 that Africa needs its own health forum to create research priorities to effectively combat disease on the continent .
Sheni stated that Africa will find it difficult to influence global research priorities in its favor without a forum .
The continent lacks resources .
Sheni attended a four - day meeting to discuss global health at Arusha in northern Tanzania .
Sheni addressed more than 700 public health specialists from 100 countries .
Sheni told delegates at the Global Forum for Health Research 's annual meeting that less than 10 percent of the global health research budget of 70 billion dollars went to Africa .
Africa has 90 percent of the global diseases .
Sheni said the formation of the Asian and Pacific Health Research Forum and the Latin American Health Research Forum are steps in the right direction .
Global Forum for Health Research Chairman Richard Feachem said it was unfair for poor countries to be allocated meager sums of research funding .
Feachem said the majority of the poor are getting little health research funding compared to the wealthy few .
The Global Forum for Health Research is an independent , international foundation funded by the Rockefeller Foundation , the World Health Organization , the World Bank and the Governments of Canada , Denmark , Netherlands , Norway , Sweden and Switzerland .
2002-12-03
China ( CN ) ; United States ( US )
Telecom ; international
New U.S. study claims that one - tenth of Internet 's sites are blocked by the Chinese Government authorities using updated Filtering technology .
A wide range of sites including a very high percentage of news sites and keywords were found to be blocked .
A U.S. study released on 03 December 2002 states that one - tenth of the Internet 's sites may be blocked by Chinese authorities as part of efforts to prevent access to information on dissidents , Taiwan , Tibet and other subjects .
The study was conducted by Harvard University 's berkman Center for Internet and society .
The study found that more than 50000 of the approximately 200000 websites tested were inaccessible from at least 1 point in China on at least 1 occasion .
Using a more narrow definition of blocked site the study concluded that 18931 websites were being blocked to Chinese web users .
Harvard researcher and co - author of the report Ben Edelman stated that it is likely that similar percentages apply to the Internet as a whole .
Edelman told AFP that it is highly likely that approximately one - tenth of the Internet is filtered by or recently has been filtered by China .
Edelman stated that there are many different ways to measure this effect and therefore hesitated to specify any single proportion .
The latest study was broader than prior surveys and gives perspective to disparate reports about websites that are filtered or blocked by China .
In the report it is concluded that --
China blocks a range of web content beyond that which is sexually explicit .
1000s of sites providing information about news , health , education , and entertainment were blocked .
Approximately 3284 sites from Taiwan were blocked .
The blocked sites also included those of U.S. news organizations including ABC News and CBS News , the Alta Vista search engine , and a number of U.S. universities .
The researchers found that 100 percent of the top 10 sites with keywords Tibet , Taiwan China , or equality were blocked .
A large number of other sites with keywords such as freedom , democracy and HIV were also blocked .
The BBC news site was consistently unavailable .
Sites for CNN , Time magazine , U.S. - based public broadcasting system , the Miami Herald , and the Philadelphia Inquirer were also often blocked .
The report found that 42 of google 's top 100 results for news were blocked .
Religious sites blocked in China included the Asian American Baptist Church , The atheist network , the Catholic Civil Rights League , Feng Shui , the Jewish Federation of Winnipeg , and the Denver Zen center .
China has an estimated 45 million Internet users .
China has been widely criticized in the West for blocking websites and for imprisoning people for viewing banned sites or using the Internet for anti - government activities .
The Chinese government is believed to routinely block a large number of foreign - based sites primarily those featuring dissident views or banned groups such as the Falungong spiritual organization but also certain foreign news sites and pages showing pornography .
A recent report by the U.S. - based Rand Corporation think tank found that the Chinese government now uses more technology to filter out objectionable content rather than relying solely on surveillance of users and seizure of equipment as it did in the past .
The rand report released earlier in 2002 found that Chinese authorities now appear to have more effective technology for filtering out undesirable content .
2002-12-10
Europe ; Iraq ( IQ )
proliferation ; international ; science
A laboratory chief from the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) said on December 10 , 2002 that the UN 's nuclear agency could detect even infinitesimal amounts of radiation from weapons programs if they exist in samples from Iraq .
A laboratory chief from the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) said on December 10 , 2002 that the UN 's nuclear agency could detect infinitesimal amounts of radiation from weapons programs if they exist in samples from Iraq .
David Donohue spoke at the IAEA laboratory in Seibersdorf on the southwest outskirts of Vienna .
Donohue said the equipment can detect particles down to the picogram ( a millionth of a millionth of a gram ) .
The first samples from Iraq are due to arrive to the laboratory this week .
IAEA and other UN inspectors have been taking soil , water and air samples since November 27 , 2001 at Iraqi sites suspected of being used for programs to make weapons of mass destruction .
Donohue said samples will be sent for corroboration to labs in France , the US , the UK ( Britain ) , Japan and Russia if IAEA finds any traces of radiation from enriched uranium or plutonium , or any chemical and biological agents .
Donohue said it is very difficult to manipulate radioactive isotopes without leaving a trail .
A trail will be left even if it 's only ultra - traces .
The IAEA is the UN agency charged with monitoring nuclear activity .
The UN Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission ( UNMOVIC ) tests for chemical , biological and ballistic missile programs .
UNMOVIC is based in New York .
2002-12-22
Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP ) ; Republic of Korea ( KR )
International ; Government ; technology ; energy ; weapons
South Korea urges North Korea to return nuclear reactor to UN surveillance .
North Korea had violated 1994 shut down by disabling surveillance devices .
20021222 South Korea urged North Korea to return the Yongbyon nuclear reactor to UN surveillance in order to deescalate the nuclear crisis on the Korean Peninsula .
20021221 the UN International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) stated that North Korea had disabled IAEA surveillance devices by breaking seals on IAEA equipment and blocking surveillance cameras at the country 's 5 megawatt nuclear reactor .
20021221 IAEA Director General General Mohammed ElBaradei expressed regret over North Korea 's actions .
A South Korean Foreign Ministry official stated --
The development is regrettable and will increase tension over North Korea 's nuclear weapons program .
Japan and the United States should act jointly with South Korea .
The IAEA stated that ElBaradei warned the government of North Korea not to take further action that would prevent the IAEA from monitoring compliance with the 1994 accord with the United States shutting down the reactor .
20041212 North Korea stated that the country 's plutonium - producing nuclear program would recommence in order to produce energy due to a global embargo on oil shipments .
In 1994 the reactor was frozen under an accord in exchange for 500000 tons of fuel oil annually from the United States .
The accord additionally formed a consortium to build 2 light - water reactors .
International experts stated that the Yongbyon reactor was used to produce weapons - grade plutonium .
After the 1994 closing approximately 8000 spent fuel rods from the reactor were sealed in metal casings in cooling ponds .
20041000 the United States revealed that North Korea had admitted to implementing a nuclear program based on enriched uranium , a material for nuclear weapons .
2002-12-23
Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
proliferation ; international ; politics
North Korea removed UN seals at a laboratory suspected of being used to produce weapons - grade material .
This activity further escalates tension in the Korean Peninsula 's nuclear crisis and ignores international condemnation .
A source close to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) said late on 021223 the North had started stripping the UN nuclear regulation group 's seals and monitoring equipment from the laboratory at Yongbyon .
The lab is suspected of having reprocessed fuel rods for weapons - grade plutonium before its activities were frozen under a 940000 arms control deal with the United Sates .
The source is fully informed of IAEA activities in North Korea and said the North Koreans are cutting the seals of the nuclear fuel reprocessing laboratory and could complete it possibly by 021224 .
The move followed similar actions 021221-021222 at the Yongbyon nuclear facility during which the North Korean government took control of 1000s of spent fuel rods that could be used to make nuclear weapons .
The nuclear crisis dominated the first meeting between South Korean President Kim Dae - Jung and President - elect Roh Moo - hyun earlier 021223 .
Kim and Roh were meeting for the first time since Roh 's election last week and the meeting was supposed to focus on smoothing over the 030225 transfer of power between the outgoing and incoming leaders .
The 90 - minute talks instead centered on the North Korean government 's latest standoff with the international community .
President Kim 's spokeswoman Park Sun - sook said that Kim and Roh 's discussion was pinned down on international relations which focused on North Korea 's nuclear issue .
The South Korean government 's frustration with the North Korean government was evident in a foreign ministry statement which urged the North Korean government to restore the seals and disabled monitoring cameras on the rods .
The statement said that the North Korean government took further actions to unfreeze its nuclear activities despite repeated warnings from the South Korean government and the international community and was raising regional tension and amplifying international concerns over nuclear proliferation .
The United States responded to that development with swift condemnation .
US State Department spokesman Louis Fintor said the over 8000 spent fuel rods are of particular concern because they can be reprocessed to recover plutonium for nuclear weapons .
US Senator Richard Lugar said the North Korean government was creating a very dangerous situation , initially for South Korea and for Japan but ultimately for the United States .
Lugar will head the Senate 's Foreign Relations Committee in 030000 .
The United States has been stepping up international pressure on the North Korean government since 021222 .
Deputy US Ambassador Evans Revere met South Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Lee Tai - sik in Seoul on 021223 to discuss countermeasures to be taken against the North Korean government following the US and South Korean foreign ministers ' urgent talks over the phone .
Japanese Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi also expressed the widespread international alarm about the North Korean government 's regrettable latest move .
Analysts have said North Koreans could extract some 25 kilograms ( 55 pounds ) of weapons - grade plutonium for at least 3 nuclear weapons from the irradiated rods .
The North Korean government said it unfroze its nuclear facilities because it was in a desperate energy crisis aggravated by the suspension of fuel oil shipments .
The US government said the spent plutonium has nothing to do with power generation .
The United States and North Korea came close to war over the North Korean government 's plutonium program in the early 1990s .
The confrontation was defused when the US and North Korean Governments signed the 940000 agreed framework .
That accord has been undermined since the North Korean government admitted in 021000 to running a new , secret and separate program based on enriched uranium .
