The Israelis said they had film of the launching and breakup .
The Turkish Ambassador to the United States Osman Faruk Logoglu told The New York Times there were no casualties in the missile breakup .
Osman Faruk Logoglu added that Syria had apologized for the technical mishap .
2005-06-05
Taiwan ( TW )
International ; weapons
Taiwan successfully fired its first cruise missile .
This will enable Taiwan to hit major military targets in southeast China .
050605 the China Times reported that Taiwan has successfully test fired the Hsiung Feng its first cruise missile enabling Taiwan to hit major military targets in southeast China .
The China Times stated that the Hsiung Feng cruise missile was developed by the military - run chungshan Institute of Science and Technology , has a range of 1,000 kilometers ( 600 miles ) and could be used to attack military bases in southeast China .
The China Times stated that once the missile was deployed it would mark the first time that Taiwan is able to put strategic weapons into use and that the political and military impact of this would be far - reaching .
The Times said Defense Minister Lee jye witnessed the test firing of the missile from chiupeng military base in the southern Pingtung County and that the missile flew over 500 kilometers ( 300 miles ) before hitting its target .
The defense ministry declined to comment on the report .
The report did not specify when the test took place but speculated that it could have been in March .
The missile is expected to go into pilot production later in 050000 or 060000 .
Taiwan is striving to build up its missile defense capabilities to counter the military threat from China .
Officials state that China has targeted Taiwan with approximately 700 ballistic missiles .
Taiwan 's cabinet approved a revised arms deal with the United States in 050500 worth almost 15.5 billion dollars after a previous proposal was rejected by parliament .
The arms package over a 15 - year period beginning in 050000 includes 8 conventional submarines , a modified version of the Patriot anti - missile system and a fleet of anti - submarine aircraft .
The package is pending final approval by Parliament .
This large budget proposal has provoked debate Taiwan as critics said the spending could further provoke China and heighten cross - strait tensions .
China considers Taiwan part of its territory awaiting reunification since they split at the end of the civil war in 490000 , and has repeatedly threatened to invade if Taiwan moves towards formal independence .
2005-07-08
Brazil ( BR ) ; United States ( US )
International ; health ; money
Brazilian government and Abbott Laboratories agree on lower price for AIDS drug Kaletra in response to Brazilian threat to violate the patent .
According to WHO studies the price of the drug was exorbitant and the Brazilian government demanded that Abbot lower the price .
On 08 July 2005 Brazil 's Ministry of Health stated that U.S. company Abbott Laboratories has agreed to reduce the price of its HIV / AIDS drug Kaletra to prevent Brazil from violating the company 's patent as it had threatened .
The ministry said in a statement --
The agreement made with Abbott guarantees the Ministry 's proposed objectives ensuring a significant price cut for the drug over the next 6 years .
Abbott agreed to a technology transfer procedure so that Brazil 's state - run farmanguinhos laboratories can begin producing Kaletra in 2009 .
The agreement guarantees access to Meltrex by Brazilian patients .
Meltrex is an updated version of Kaletra that is pending approval by U.S. health authorities .
Over the 6 years which the Agreement covers Brazil expects to save up to 259 million U.S. dollars in drug purchases .
The Ministry recently stated that an agreement with Abbott would save Brazil 18 million U.S. dollars in its 2006 budget to provide AIDS patients free anti - AIDS treatment consisting of a cocktail of anti - retroviral drugs including Kaletra .
Currently 24000 patients in Brazil receive Kaletra .
The number is expected to increase to 60000 by 2011 .
On 24 June 2005 Brazil declared Kaletra a drug of national interest and demanded that Abbott decide within 10 days to either agree to lower its price for the drug or face a violation of its patent .
On 24 June 2005 Brazilian Health Minister Humberto Costa stated that the price paid by the Brazilian Government to purchase Kaletra represented a yearly cost of 2630 U.S. dollars per patient .
Costa stated that this price is considered exorbitant because studies of the World Health Organization ( WTO ) showed that for large - scale production the fair price including a considerable margin of profit should range from 480 to 540 U.S. dollars per patient per year .
Costa stated that Brazil planned to have a less expensive generic copy of the patented drug produced locally by a state - owned company .
Illinois - based Abbott stated that Brazil 's demands were illegal and warned that developing unproven alternative HIV medication posed significant consequences for patients .
Abbott stated that it remained open to an agreeable solution .
2005-07-15
Pakistan ( PK ) ; United Kingdom ( GB )
International ; terrorism
Pakistani analysts say that Pakistan 's network of madrassas has close links with Islamic extremists in Britain , who supply them with extremist recruits and funding .
Pakistani analysts said on 050715 that Pakistan 's network of madrassa Islamic schools has close links with Islamic extremists in Britain , who supply them with extremist recruits and vital funding .
On 050714 British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw expressed concern over what goes on in some Pakistani madrassas .
It has emerged that Shehzad Tanweer was one of the terrorists who carried out the bombing of an underground subway train at Aldgate in east London .
Tanweer was said by his uncle to have gone in 041200 to a Pakistani madrassa , wanting to learn to recite the Koran by heart .
Sources in Pakistan said that British authorities should look inside British borders where the South Asian community is turning to increasingly extremist religious views .
Kamila hyat of Pakistan 's Human Rights Commision said that militancy is being exported in the reverse direction .
Younger Pakistanis coming from Britain have very extreme and hard - line views and view British culture as decadent .
When Pakistani - British youngsters come to Pakistan they are surprised to see women walking around without burqas .
Analysts say Tanweer 's trip to Pakistan was by no means unusual , as many Pakistani families who emigrated some 40 or 50 years ago and settled in Britain send their children for religious teaching at madrassas .
Hyat said they want to ensure their children are not alienated from their family faith and hope a brief stint of a few terms will help ground them in Islamic and Pakistani culture .
Hyat said that complaints have nonetheless been received from parents in Pakistan who are very concerned about teenagers who graduate and then go back to the UK for University .
The parents of some madrassa students are saying that the young men are somewhat confused when away from the UK for the first time and are consistently being approached by other Pakistanis or by Arabs who attempt to get them to join extremist groups .
Such students bring extremism back to the UK when coming back home .
Madrassas continue to produce a peculiar state of mind in students , said Hasan Askari .
Askari is the former head of political science department at Lahore 's Punjab University .
Askari said that these students having a state of mind of religious orthodoxy are vulnerable to violence and extremism .
Some of the radical religious schools in Pakistan have thrived on funds regularly coming from supporters among the Muslim community in Britain .
Security sources say that in one case , several thousand pounds were sent to outlawed Sipah - e - Sahaba of Pakistan in 030000 .
Pakistani security officials informed the British authorities and identified the man who sent the money as Mullah Hamid .
Mullah Hamid was a prayer leader in a mosque in Glasgow .
Pakistan admits that some of the estimated 10,000 madrassas in Pakistan are breeding grounds for extremism .
Madrassas have been a part of Muslim social life on the Indian subcontinent for decades .
In the 1980s they became a recruiting ground for the US - sponsored militant movement against the Soviet occupation of neighboring Afghanistan .
President Pervez Musharraf has been campaigning since early 030000 for reform of madrassas .
Many madrassas are unregulated and the International Crisis Group says 1.5 million students attend such Islamic schools .
Education Minister Javed Ashraf stated on 050715 that efforts were working to get madrassa leaders to broaden the curriculum beyond rote Koranic learning and to encompass useful and employable skills .
2005-07-18
United Kingdom ( GB )
terrorism ; international ; Telecom
20050705 terrorist attacks may prompt counter - extremism measures sufficient to force Islamist militant organizations in London into convert operations via the Internet .
Anti - terrorist laws in the UK strengthened and suspected extremists were pursued more aggressively after the 20010911 attacks in the US .
The 20050707 terrorist attacks that killed 56 on London underground trains and a double - decker bus prompted demands for further anti - terror laws and surveillance of Islamist militants .
Director of the Center for the Study of terrorism at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland Magnus ranstorp stated that the militants may be forced underground into the cybersphere , which has potential utility for command , communication , and especially recruitment .
Londonistan is the Islamist core operating in London .
The two main components of londonistan are the international Jihad Movement and the exiled opposition to current Arab or Muslim regimes .
Londonistan emerged in the 1990s because London was a center for finance and Arabic media and because of Britain 's lenient asylum laws .
20050718 the Royal Institute of International Affairs ( Chatham House ) stated --
By the mid - 1990s British intelligence agencies and police were aware that London was expanding as a base for promoters , funders , and planners of terrorism in the Middle East and elsewhere .
Officials did not perceive any threat to national security and the individuals continued their activities with relative impunity .
Ranstorm stated that the militants have previously cautiously avoided incitement to violence .
Foreign Governments opposed the British government 's passive policy .
Government crackdown --
In 2004 British authorities dismantled the Finsbury Park mosque in London , the previous venue of Salafist jihadists .
Since then the militants have moved to informal areas , study groups , and youth centers .
The former imam of Finsbury Park mosque is Egyptian - born Abu Hamza al-Masri .
Masri is crippled with 1 eye and 1 arm and is incarcerated in Belmarsh prison awaiting a 20060100 trial on charges of inciting racial hatred and murder .
Abu Qatada is a Palestinian considered the spiritual chief for Al-Qaeda in Europe .
He is under house arrest after serving 2.5 years at Belmarsh .
French researcher Dominique Thomas stated --
The remaining preachers must adopt a clandestine attitude or risk surveillance or arrest .
Islamist groups such as those seeking reform in Saudi Arabia , Egypt , or Libya will be stymied .
Londonistan 's imminent disappearance may force militants to seek a clandestine meeting place on the Internet .
There are a number of websites managed or administered from London and the Internet facilitates global connection .
20041000 the Syrian founder of the radical Al-Muhajiroun movement Omar Bakri relocated his organization to Internet chat rooms .
2005-09-12
France ( FR ) ; India ( IN )
International ; technology ; military ; Government ; leader ; money
French President Chirac confirms 2.4 billion euro purchase of 6 Franco - Spanish submarines .
Indian Airlines additionally purchased 43 Airbus planes for 1.8 billion euros .
20050912 French President Jacques Chirac met with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at the President 's Paris offices and confirmed India 's 2.4 billion euro purchase of 6 Franco - Spanish Scorpene submarines .
The submarine deal stipulates that the Franco - Spanish made vessels be assembled in Mumbai as part of a technology transfer agreement .
The French government has pursued the deal enthusiastically .
Chirac additionally confirmed the state - run Indian Airlines ' 1.8 billion euro purchase of 43 Airbus passenger aircraft previously announced by Singh and Indian Airlines .
Chirac stated --
Chirac welcomes the deal as a measure of friendship , trust and cooperation between France and India .
Chirac and Singh will discuss counter - terrorism and India 's bid for a permanent seat on the UN Security Council and desire to develop the country 's civilian nuclear energy sector .
Indian Navy spokesman Commander Vina Garg stated in New Delhi --
The submarine contract has yet to be officially confirmed but pending clearance the submarine construction will commence .
The submarines will benefit the Indian navy 's overall force level .
The diesel - electric submarines are designed for coastal defense .
The vessels are 65 meters long , contain sophisticated detection equipment , 6 torpedo tubes and missile launchers and can remain at sea up to 45 days with a crew of 31 and dive 300 meters .
Singh was the first foreign leader to meet with Chirac since being released from the hospital on 20050909 after a reported minor vascular problem affecting his vision .
2005-09-19
Spain ( ES )
Weapons ; crime
Spain detained suspected neo - Nazi group in the eastern Valencia region on suspicion of possession and trafficking of weapons .
Experts claim there are approximately 70 extremist groups in 70 Spanish cities comprising 11000 people .
On 19 September 2005 Spain detained suspected neo - Nazi group in Spain 's eastern Valencia region .
A regional court spokesman announced --
on 17-18 September 2005 Spain detained the group on suspicion of possession and trafficking of weapons .
Group is charged with breaking laws of illegal association and risking public health .
Last week Spain arrested 20 suspected extremists .
3 suspected extremists were released on bail .
1 suspected extremist was provisionally released without bail .
The regional court spokesman stated that 4 suspected extremists had not yet been questioned .
The suspected neo - Nazi group is reputedly a member of the anti - system Front ( AFS ) .
Judicial authorities believe the suspected neo - Nazi group has organised violent raids against rival groups .
On 17 2005 Spain 's Interior Ministry stated that police uncovered illegal items and arms of the kind used in raids against rival groups .
Pressure group movement against intolerance claim there are approximately 70 extremist groups in approximately 70 Spanish cities .
This estimate is based on 10 - year - old official figures .
The extremist groups are comprised of approximately 11000 people .
Neo - Nazi censure of democracy group claims the total number of extremists is approximately 15000 .
2005-10-10
Europe ; China ( CN )
International ; economy
China 's research and development spending will catch up with that of the EU in 090000 or 100000 if current spending trends continue .
Conditions for research and development in some emerging markets like China may be surpassing Europe 's , so European companies are transferring some of their investments there .
The Financial Times reported 051010 that in just 5 years China will be spending proportionally more on research and development than the European Union .
EU Commissioner for research Janez Potocnik told the Financial Times that the Chinese trend is extremely clear .
Potocnik said that China will catch up with the EU in 090000 or 100000 if the trend continues .
The Financial Times said research and development investment in China was 1.31 percent of GDP in 030000 but is rising at a double - digit rate .
The Financial Times said that at present growth rates , the EU 's public and private spending on research and development is set to rise from 1.93 percent of gross domestic product in 030000 to 2.2 percent in 100000 .
This is well short of the 3 percent target agreed by EU heads of government as part of the 020000 Lisbon Strategy .
Potocnik was quoted as saying that the conditions for research and development in some emerging markets like China are improving and it is obvious that European companies are transferring some of their investments there .
Potocnik is worried about Europe 's unfavorable research and development environment ranging from excessive red tape to insufficient corporate tax incentives and continued divergences in intellectual property protection and patenting .
In response to the research and development boom in countries such as China and India , the EU government will this week table new proposals to help retain and attract research funding in the EU .
An EU government plan to double the EU 's own research and development budget to 70 billion euro over 060000-110000 was shelved in June amid a dispute among EU leaders over future EU funding .
2005-10-18
India ( IN ) ; Pakistan ( PK )
weather and natural disaster ; war and conflict ; terrorism
Deadly attacks in India continue despite deaths of Pakistani Kashmir rebels and destruction of group infrastructure due to earthquake .
There is conflicting opinion as to the extent of damage suffered by the insurgency .
Rebel fighting continues despite losses suffered by Islamic rebels in Pakistan - ruled Kashmir in the massive earthquake .
The Indian government is attempting to assess the extent of losses suffered by rebels .
Police stated that on 18 October 2005 2 militants entered the fortified Srinagar home of junior Education Minister Ghulam Nabi lone of the People 's Democratic Party ( PDF ) and shot him to death .
2 policemen and 1 of the attackers also died and 5 others were injured in the gunfight .
The attack occurred less than 1 day after suspected rebels shot and killed a prominent communist politician in Indian Kashmir .
The daily violence has continued despite a ceasefire declaration in areas affected by the 08 October 2005 earthquake .
The violence that has occurred since the earthquake has been attributed to an umbrella group of separatists called the United Jihad Council .
Some insurgents have joined relief efforts .
The Indian military has not reacted to insurgents ' relief efforts and has continued counter - insurgency operations .
The army states that while it directs aid work it has also killed more than 30 militants since the earthquake .
Federal Intelligence agencies have been working to assess the damage to insurgents in and around Muzaffarabad .
Muzaffarabad is the militants ' headquarters and the capital of Pakistani Kashmir .
Army chief General J. J. Singh stated --
The epicenter of the 7.6 - magnitude earthquake was in Muzaffarabad and caused damage among the militant groups .
All the terrorist infrastructure in and around Muzaffarabad was destroyed and many innocent people died .
It is premature to state with certainty what impact the earthquake has had on the militant groups as infrastructure remains intact in other areas in Pakistan .
The militant groups are seeking either independence for Kashmir or absorption into Pakistan .
Over 1300 people in Indian Kashmir and 41000 people in Pakistan were killed in the earthquake .
The Indian government accuses the Pakistani government of training , arming and funding the Islamic rebellion .
The Pakistani government denies this charge but states that it does extend moral , political and diplomatic support to Kashmiri separatists .
Head of military operations in Indian Kashmir Brigadier Madan Gopal expressed confidence on 17 October 2005 that many of the militants had been killed .
Gopal stated that the Hizbul Mujahedin and the Lashkar - e - Toiba have suffered major losses in the earthquake on the Pakistani side .
Hizbul Mujahedin and Lashkar - e - Toiba are groups that carry out frequent attacks .
Violence continues despite conflicting opinion on the extent of damage suffered by the rebel groups .
Retired General V. N. Sharma rejects suggestions that the earthquake has critically damaged the core of the insurgency .
Sharma was India 's army chief when the insurgency erupted in 1989 .
Sharma states that such suggestions are unrealistic .
Sharma states that he does not think the insurgency has been destroyed because the groups are mobile units and live in tented accommodations .
Sharma states that the destruction of a few communications centers or sub - command posts has little affect on the Greater organization .
Approximately 44000 people have died in the insurgency .
Head of the Military - funded Institute of Defense studies and analysis in New Delhi Uday Bhaskar also warned against complacency stating that loss of firepower and manpower is unimportant .
Bhaskar stated that the militants will soon regroup because they are highly motivated and believe they can achieve their goal of freeing Kashmir from Indian control with violence .
The Indian government is also taking a cautious approach .
Indian Defense Minister Pranab Mukherjee on 17 October 2005 called for vigilance along the 430 - mile de facto border which divides the two Kashmirs .
Mukherjee stated --
Militants have attempted to infiltrate Indian Kashmir approximately 5 times since 08 October 2005 including twice on a single day .
Some of the militants wanted to take advantage of the unstable situation in the region .
The presence of civilians among the troops on relief work could help militants cross the de facto border .
There could be more infiltration attempts next week before winter snow blocks the mountain passes .
2005-12-06
France ( FR ) ; China ( CN )
International ; technology ; science ; Government ; energy ; business ; money ; leader
During a 4 - day tour of France Chinese Prime Minister Wen states that French company Areva must improve its offer for a nuclear reactor deal with regard to price and technology transfer .
Wen also signed a deal to initiate student exchange programs and attempted to allay anxiety about China 's rapidly growing power .
On 06 December 2005 Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao stated that in order to win a contract to build third - generation nuclear reactors in China France must improve its offer in terms of both cost and transfers of technology .
Wen was speaking on the 3rd day of a 4 - day visit to France .
On a tour of the elite Polytechnique Science University in the southern suburbs of Paris Wen stated that China hopes France will offer more attractive conditions on technology transfer as well as price so that Franco - Chinese cooperation in this field can develop .
The French company Areva is bidding for an 8 billion U.S. dollar ( 6.8 billion euro ) deal to construct 4 reactors in China as are U.S. company Westinghouse and Russian company atomstroyexport .
The bidding among the 3 companies has been competitive .
China was to have announced a winner by the end of 2005 but has delayed its decision until early next year hoping to elicit better terms from the bidders .
On 05 December 2005 during the 4 - day visit to France a Chinese order for 150 medium - range A 320 airliners from the European consortium Airbus was announced .
Airbus also signed a protocol that could lead to aircraft being constructed in China .
Prime Minister Wen held talks in Paris with French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin and French President Jacques Chirac and was then to depart the afternoon of 06 December 2005 to Marseille to visit the headquarters of the helicopter manufacturer Eurocopter .
On 05 December 2005 Eurocopter announced a 600 million Euro partnership deal with China to share development and production of a new 16 - seat aircraft called the ec175 .
Wen is scheduled to visit the site of the future experimental nuclear fusion reactor ITER in which China is a partner .
On 07 December 2005 Wen is scheduled to tour the space - satellite facility of telecommunications company Alcatel in Cannes .
Wen departs on 07 December 2005 for Slovakia , the Czech Republic and Portugal .
1 of the reasons for Wen 's visit to the 200 year - old Polytechnique at palaiseau was to sign a partnership deal with three Chinese universities that will introduce new exchange programs and shared qualifications .
Wen stated --
The dynamic young students represented the future of the world .
Student exchanges are more important than the purchase of 150 Airbus .
At present there is economic cooperation between China and France but with such programs in the future there will be cultural cooperation .
In a speech to students , professors and business leaders , Wen attempted to allay anxiety in Europe that China 's fast - growing economic power is a threat to the rest of the world .
Wen stated that because China suffered so much from foreign invasions it understands the value of peace .
Wen stated that for China to choose peace is logical given its history and culture .
China 's development is not a threat but an opportunity for the world .
The French have expressed fear that China 's low costs and poor standards of social security are attracting economic activity and causing increased unemployment in Europe but Wen argued that growing domestic demand in China will eventually lead to new opportunities for foreign exporters .
France views China as a strategic ally in its pursuit of a multipolar world that is not dominated by the U.S. though trade relations between France and China remain low .
France ranks 15th among suppliers to China providing only 1.4 percent of China 's foreign needs .
2005-12-12
Republic of Korea ( KR )
International ; technology ; military ; Government ; business ; money
Eurocopter won a large contract with the Republic of Korea to produce troop - carrying helicopters .
The goal of this multi - billion dollar project is to allow the Republic of Korea to launch its own aeronautical industry .
On December 12 , 2005 the Eurocopter subsidiary of the European EADS defense and aeronautics group won a contract worth hundreds of millions of dollars from the Republic of Korea for troop - carrying helicopters .
Eurocopter will take 30 percent of the project price as profit .
The cost of the contract is estimated to be 6 billion dollars or 5 billion euros .
The contract will include the production of 245 aircraft capable of carrying up to 8.5 tons for over 20 years .
Eurocopter will provide the technical platform for the helicopter through a large technology transfer .
The Government of the Republic of Korea is expected to make a formal statement on December 13 , 2005 on the Korean helicopter program .
The Korean helicopter program is scheduled to be finalized in 2011 .
The goal of the the Korean helicopter program is to allow the Republic of Korea to launch its own aeronautical industry .
2001-08-30
Australia ( AU )
International ; weapons ; war and conflict
UN undersecretary - general for disarmament affairs WARNS AGAINST increases in global military spending , citing arms sales to developing countries and failures in nuclear disarmament negotiations .
20010830 UN undersecretary - general for Disarmament Affairs Jayantha Dhanapala stated in a speech at Macquarie University in Sydney issued by his office at the UN that global military spending is rising at an alarming rate after years of decline following the 1991 end of the cold war .
20010600 the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute reported that global military spending increased from 780 billion dollars in 1999 to 798 billion dollars in 2000 .
Developing countries -- Dhanapala stated that as before military spending increased at the highest rates in African and South Asian countries with significant unmet social and economic needs .
Dhanapala stated that arms sales to developing countries increased 8 percent to over 36 billion dollars in 2000 .
The Stockholm Institute stated that 23 of 25 major armed conflicts in the world in 2000 occurred in impoverished nations .
Dhanapala stated that impoverished countries involved in armed conflicts wasted human lives and scarce economic resources .
Dhanapala called the situation tragic and noted that half of the world 's population lives on under 2 dollars per day .
20010800 the US Congressional Research Service reported that the US sold almost 50 percent of weapons purchased by developing countries in 2000 , followed by Russia , France , Germany , Britain and China .
The United Arab Emirates , India , and South Korea lead weapons purchases in 2000 .
Dhanapala stated that the United Arab Emirates , India , and South Korea are the world 's three most volatile regions .
Dhanapala stated that the first resolution adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1946 called for the elimination of all weapons of mass destruction .
20010830 the UN Security Council passed a resolution for armed conflict prevention requesting that Member States ensure implementation of the UN program of action on the illicit trade in small arms developed in a summit on small arms in New York in 20010700 .
Dhanapala stated --
Approximately 30000 nuclear weapons remain in arsenals around the world and many are on high alert .
Approximately 550 million small arms remain in circulation around the world .
The numbers of both large and small weapons are alarming .
Dhanapala stated that international efforts to halt or decelerate the spread of weapons have stalled .
Dhanapala stated that negotiations on nuclear disarmament and controlling the fissile material used in nuclear weapons are deadlocked at the UN Conference on Disarmament in Geneva .
The nuclear test ban treaty has not received sufficient ratifications to enter into force .
20010700 efforts to enforce a ban on biological warfare failed when the US declared a draft proposal unacceptable .
Dhanapala stated that the stated intention of the US to withdraw as a party jeopardizes the Anti - Ballistic Missile Treaty may incite a new phase of the global nuclear arms race as well the probability of a missile race and the weaponization of space .
US President George W. Bush has announced plans for the construction of an anti - missile shield , which would violate the 1972 ABM Treaty that Russia considers to be a cornerstone of international security .
2002-01-11
Japan ( JP )
International ; money ; terrorism ; crime ; government
The Japanese government said on January 11 , 2002 that it had clamped down on the financial transactions of three more suspected terrorist groups as part of its efforts to freeze assets used to fund terrorism .
The Japanese government said on January 11 , 2002 that it had clamped down on the financial transactions of three more suspected terrorist groups as part of its efforts to freeze assets used to fund terrorism .
A statement issued jointly by Japan 's foreign , finance and economy ministries said authorities have imposed controls on transactions involving Hamas - Izz al-Din al-Qassem , Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Lashkar - e - Tayyiba .
Hamas - Izz al-Din al-Qassem and Palestinian Islamic Jihad are fighting to end the Israeli occupation of Palestine .
Lashkar - e - Tayyiba is engaged in a guerrilla war with Indian security forces to create an independent Islamic state in the disputed territory of Kashmir .
The statement said Japan has restricted the transactions of a total of 12 organizations and individuals suspected of terrorist activities .
Another 293 are believed to have ties to Afghanistan 's Taliban militia .
The Taliban are accused of sheltering Osama bin Laden .
The United States has named bin Laden as the mastermind of the September 11 terrorist attacks on Washington and New York .
The Japanese government announced in October 2001 that Japan had frozen three Taliban bank accounts in Japan holding about dlrs 600,000 .
Another 28 accounts amounting to about 18 million yen ( about dlrs 136,000 ) were frozen because they were suspected of being connected to the Taliban .
2002-04-15
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; space ; military
Ret . Lt. - Gen. Anatoly Sokolov announced -- Soviet - built a - 135 missile defense system around Moscow is obsolete and inefficient .
He says Russia is not strong enough to modernize the existing antimissile system and should build new missile defense technologies instead .
15 April 2002 retired Russian Space Forces General Ret . Lt. - Gen. Anatoly Sokolov announced --
Soviet - built a - 135 missile defense system around Moscow is obsolete and inefficient .
The A - 135 system is the only such system in the world .
The A - 135 system should be removed .
The A - 135 system is unable to provide protection of the area or the country .
USSR deployed a - 35 anti - ballistic missile system in 1974 .
The A - 35 --
was deployed around Moscow .
consisted of radars and 64 missile interceptors .
was continually modified with independently - targeted multiple warheads .
A - 135 launched in 1994 as latest version of A - 35 .
A - 135 includes long - and medium - range missile interceptors .
The Anti - Ballistic Missile ( ABM ) Treaty allows the US and Russia to protect a single site with no more than 100 interceptors .
Russia 's missile defense system complied with the ABM Treaty .
In 1970s the US had a similar system to protect missile fields in North Dakota .
The US has destroyed this system .
The ABM Treaty bars a nationwide missile shield of the kind the US wants to deploy .
In December 2001 President George W. Bush warned Russia that the US would withdraw from the ABM Treaty in 6 months .
Russian President Vladimir Putin stated --
US withdrawal from the ABM Treaty was not a threat to Russian security .
US withdrawal from the ABM would hurt global stability .
Russian officials have said recently that the Moscow missile defense system could be upgraded in the next few years ,
Sokolov stated --
Russian government should not modernize the old missile defense system but build new missile defense technologies instead .
Modernization would be costly .
Russia is not strong enough to modernize the existing antimissile system .
Russia has lost several Soviet - built long - range radars essential for effective operation of an anti - missile system .
A new anti - missile system in Belarus would be inadequate .
Sokolov previously served as a top commander with Russia 's space forces .
2002-05-16
Malaysia ( MY ) ; Indonesia ( ID ) ; Singapore ( SG ) ; Philippines ( PH )
International ; politics ; terrorism ; crime ; government
Malaysia 's Deputy Home Affairs Minister Chor Chee Heung calls for leaders of Southeast Asian countries to standardize domestic laws and introduce anti - terrorism laws at a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations .
Some ASEAN officials stated such standardization would be difficult due to different countries ' political systems .
Officials from Singapore and the Philippines requested Indonesian government exert control over Islamic militants in Indonesia , but an Indonesian official denies Indonesia is a base for Southeast Asian terrorists .
On 16 May 2002 Malaysia 's Deputy Home Affairs Minister Chor Chee Heung told delegates from the region that leaders of Southeast Asian countries should consider standardizing domestic laws and should introduce new laws to aid the efforts against terrorism and cross - border crime .
Chor made the statement at a meeting of senior police and officials from the law and order ministries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or ASEAN .
ASEAN members are Malaysia , Singapore , Indonesia , the Philippines , Thailand , Brunei , Laos , Cambodia , Vietnam and Myanmar .
The 2 - day ASEAN Conference focused on fighting sea piracy , gun smuggling , drug trafficking , illegal immigration and other cross - border crimes .
Chor stated the pace of technological improvements is rapidly outstripping the abilities of law enforcement agencies to keep pace with transnational criminal organizations .
Chor stated the recent communications developments have aided cross - border money laundering , illegal gambling and electronic fraud .
Chor stated that forging extradition treaties , standardizing definitions of crimes , simplifying laws on the seizure of criminal proceeds and introducing similar witness protection programs would be beneficial .
Chor stated harmonization of laws will spread the risks that criminal organizations have to confront and provide fewer safe havens for transnational organized crime organizations .
Some officials stated the task would be difficult for ASEAN members because of varied legal and political systems .
Deputy Commissioner of the Royal Palace Thai police 's Special Branch Amarin neemskul stated standardizing laws in Southeast Asia was not currently possible though the willingness is there .
ASEAN officials will hold separate talks on combating terrorism immediately after the Conference in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
In early May 2002 officials from the Philippines , Malaysia and Indonesia signed an anti - terrorism agreement to share airline passenger lists and other intelligence .
Thai Government has indicated Thailand will join the pact .
U.S. military trainers are aiding officials in the Philippines in attempting to remove Islamic guerrillas from the southern Philippines .
A number of suspected Islamic militants with alleged al-Qaida links have been arrested in Malaysia and Singapore , and officials stated the militants ' network extends into Indonesia .
Officials from ASEAN countries including Singapore and the Philippines have urged Indonesian Government to exercise control over Islamic militant groups in Indonesia .
Indonesia 's top police officer assigned to Interpol Dadang Garnida stated to reporters at the ASEAN meeting that no evidence indicated Indonesia was a base for Southeast Asian terrorists and that Islamic extremist groups in Indonesia were legitimate forums for promoting solidarity among Muslims , unless members broke the law .
2002-05-20
Malaysia ( MY )
Weapons ; narcotics ; terrorism ; crime
Home Minister of Malaysia Abdullah Ahmad Badawi told a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that Southeast Asian countries must work together to stop criminals from abetting terrorist activity .
On 20 May 2002 Home Minister of Malaysia Abdullah Ahmad Badawi told a regional counter - terrorism meeting --
Arms smugglers and drug cartels must be eliminated from Southeast Asia .
Arms smugglers and drug cartels abet terrorists .
Arms smugglers and drug cartels provide militant groups with weapons and funds in return for protection .
The counter - terrorism meeting took place between interior security ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) .
The meetings lasted 2 days .
Badawi is also deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia .
Police and ASEAN interior security ministers will be asked to make their laws covering transnational crime more alike .
At a related meeting last week ASEAN officials named drug trafficking , weapons smuggling , money laundering , sea piracy , illegal immigration and cybercrime as areas where cooperation between countries can strengthen regional defenses .
ASEAN ministers are expected to approve plans to forge extradition treaties , sign bilateral and multilateral agreements on intelligence sharing and harmonize criminal laws .
ASEAN ministers will discuss a proposal for joint training exercises in bomb detection , airport security and intelligence gathering .
In early May 2002 the Philippines , Malaysia and Indonesia signed an agreement to share terrorism intelligence .
Thailand has stated it will sign the agreement .
ASEAN Deputy Secretary - General Ahmad Mokhtar Selat stated --
Ministers may encourage other nations to sign the agreement .
A trilateral agreement could form a regional agreement encompassing all 10 ASEAN member countries .
The Philippines seeks to eliminate Islamic guerrillas in the restive south .
The Philippines is being assisted by U.S. military trainers .
Suspected Islamic militants with alleged al-Qaida links have been arrested in Malaysia and Singapore .
In 2001 a plot by these militants to bomb Western embassies was exposed .
Some ASEAN countries have stated that a regional Islamic militant network extends into Indonesia .
Abdullah stated that swift action by ASEAN governments had been able to --
identify terrorist threats early
Stop major regional terror networks from proliferating
Abdullah was apparently referencing laws in Malaysia and Singapore that allow for indefinite jailing of suspects with trial .
ASEAN members are Malaysia , Singapore , Indonesia , the Philippines , Thailand , Brunei , Laos , Cambodia , Vietnam and Myanmar / Burma .
2002-06-05
Ukraine ( UA )
International ; space ; technology
Ukraine almost has all of the necessary approvals to join the European Space Agency 's program .
Ukraine is considered likely to gain the remaining approvals which will allow Ukraine to join the program and share its renowned space technologies .
The European Space Agency recommended on June 6 , 2002 that Ukraine join a multinational program that could greatly expand markets for Ukrainian space technology .
Head of the European Space Agency 's technology transfer program Pierre Brisson stated that the European Space Agency will have to ask the European Commission before confirming Ukraine can join the program .
Pierre Brisson also stated that the European Commission will most likely issue approval by August 5 , 2002 and work on the project could start on December 5 , 2002 .
The Ukrainian Government must also approve the Ukraine 's participation in the program but Deputy Director of Ukraine 's national space agency Eduard Kuznetsov stated that no problems are expected because of President Leonid Kuchma 's pro - European goals .
The European Space Agency 's endorsement followed Ukraine 's formal announcement to bid to join NATO on May 29 , 2002 .
Pierre Brisson led a team of European experts on a visit to Kiev to discuss commercial applications of Ukrainian space technology with representatives of the National Space Agency of Ukraine , scientists and business leaders .
Pierre Brisson stated that Ukraine 's materials and processing sectors are the most immediately promising to other European clients and could have a large impact on the future .
Eduard Kuznetsov stated that the space sector will outperform Ukraine 's overall integration schedules because the branch already has a record of international cooperation .
Ukraine is an impoverished former Soviet republic that gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and has since a space power .
President Leonid Kuchma 's goal for Ukraine is greater integration into Europe .
A Ukrainian company built in the Soviet era called yuzmash has helped found the Sea Launch project with the United States , Russia and Norway to launch satellites from converted sea - based oil drilling platforms .
A Ukrainian cosmonaut named loenid Kadenyuk has flown a successful mission on the U.S. space shuttle .
The European Space Agency 's program has so far transferred more than 100 technologies .
15 new companies with a turnover of 150 million euros or 140 million dollars and thousands of new jobs were created as a result .
Russia already participates in the European Space Agency 's program .
2002-06-11
Brazil ( BR )
International ; technology ; business ; money ; military
Embraer opened a new factory in the Sao Paulo state of Brazil in order to better compete to win a contract with the Brazilian air force .
Embraer inaugurated a new factory to build corporate jets and expand into the military aviation sector on June 11 , 2002 .
Mauricio betelho stated that the factory will allow Embraer to enter business sectors it has not yet entered .
The factory is located in an area called gaviao Peixoto in the Sao Paulo state in Brazil .
Gaviao Peixoto is a small orange and sugar cane farming town of 4500 inhabitants about 300 kilometers or 180 miles northwest of Sao Paulo .
This location was called ideal to test military aircraft at supersonic speeds .
Embraer is investing 150 million dollars over 10 years to upgrade the factory 's technology so that the factory can produce Embraer 's new legacy corporate jet and a range of military aircraft .
The military aircraft include the EMB - 145 reconnaissance and alx super Tucano training planes .
The factory contains a 5 kilometer or 3 mile long test runway which is the longest in the southern hemisphere .
Embraer President Mauricio betelho stated that the factory is expected to employ 1000 people by 2003 and 3000 people over the next decade .
The factory is expected to attract investments by the jetmaker 's suppliers .
Kawaski heavy industries of Japan is the first supplier to invest in the factory .
This supplier will use the factory to make wings for Embraer 's new 08 seat erj 190/195 passenger jets .
Mauricio betelho stated kawaski heavy industries is likely to be just the first of several suppliers to invest in the plant .
Embraer is the world 's 4th largest aircraft manufacturer and Brazil 's top exporter .
Embraer is 1 of 4 competitors for a contract to supply the Brazilian air force with 12 new supersonic fighters .
Embraer is working with French partner Dassault avaiation to gain technology transfer which should give the local bid an advantage over the other competitiors .
The winner of this contract is expected to be announced in a few days .
If Embraer wins the contract the Mirage 2000-5 BR would be assembled at the factory and Dassault would transfer all technology including software codes that allow flexibility int he choice of missiles to Embraer .
Winning the contract would also allow Embraer to export assembled mirages .
The competitors include Lockheed Martins ' F - 16 C , the JAS - 39 Gripen built by a U.K. - Swedish consortium and two Russian planes called the MiG - 29 and the Sukhoi Su - 35 .
Air Force experts are said to prefer the Sukhoi fighter but Botelho stated that national sovereignty should play an important role in the result .
Sao Paulo state is Brazil 's richest and most industralized state .
2002-06-18
Pakistan ( PK )
dissent ; war and conflict ; international ; terrorism
Fathers of militants killed in Kashmir vow to continue support for independence
Mohammed Aziz 's son Imam was killed in Kashmir in January 2002 .
Militants fighting against Indian rule buried the son in the Himalayan forests .
Imam was Aziz 's eldest son .
Aziz stated that he would not hesitate to sacrifice his remaining four sons for Kashmiri independence .
Aziz is angry that President Pervez Musharraf will obstruct Pakistan 's the militant Islamic groups that send fighters into the Indian - ruled portion of Kashmir .
Aziz stated his pride of being a father of a martyr and that President Musharraf has sold the blood of hundreds of freedom fighters by stopping men from waging jihad in Kashmir .
Aziz was in Lahore near the Indian border south of Kashmir .
10000 people rallied on June 16 , 2002 in Lahore including Aziz .
Political and religious groups vowed to fight for Kashmir despite Musharraf 's promise to stop militants based in Pakistan from crossing into Indian - controlled territory to stage attacks .
Militant groups that oppose Musharraf 's crackdown and Musharraf 's support for the U.S. - led war in Afghanistan have been blamed for attacks targeting foreigners and symbols of Western influence in Pakistan .
This included a bombing outside the U.S. consulate in Karachi that killed 12 people in June 2002 .
Musharraf pledged to stop cross - border infiltration because of pressure from the United States .
The United States fears the Kashmir crisis could trigger a full - scale conflict between India and Pakistan .
The dispute over Kashmir began when India and Pakistan gained independence from Britain in 1947 .
The two countries both have nuclear weapons and have fought two wars over Kashmir .
There are increased tensions of war between India and Pakistan after an attack on an Indian army camp .
The attack killed 34 people and was one of the deadliest single assaults since 1989 .
In 1989 militants launched an insurgency in Indian - controlled Kashmir seeking independence or a merger with Islamic Pakistan .
Kashmir is India 's only Muslim - majority state .
India is dominated by Hinduism .
India accuses Islamabad of funding and training guerrillas .
The guerrillas cross the Line of Control that divides Kashmir and carry out attacks on the Indian side .
Tens of thousands of Indian troops , guerrillas and civilians have been killed .
Pakistan says it only provides moral and political support for Kashmir 's named freedom fighters .
Diplomatic intervention and Musharraf 's suppression of militants and cross - border attacks have decreased tensions of war .
There is strong resentment among Pakistan 's conservative Islamic groups .
Fighter with Hezb - ul Mujahedeen Anas Javed said that Pakistan soldiers deployed near the Kashmir border used to pray for success in Jihad but are now terrorists according to Musharra .
Hezb - ul Mujahedeen is one of the main militant groups fighting in Kashmir .
The leaders of two other outlawed Pakistani militant groups that operate in Kashmir Lashkar - e - Tayyaba and Jaish - e - Mohammed are in police custody and under house arrest respectively .
Musharraf 's crackdown has decreased tensions about war .
The dispute over Kashmir continues with no signs of abating .
A Board was created during the rally in Lahore bearing the names of militants killed during the 12 - year insurgency .
Safdar Sadiqui 's son was on it .
Sadiqui 's son was killed in Kashmir in 1993 at age 22 .
Islamic cleric Sadiqui stated that his son gave his life for Kashmir and that Sadiqui would do whatever possible to liberate Kashmir .
Sadiqui is associated with Pakistan 's main hard - line religious group Jamaat - e - Islami .
Muslim cleric Mohammed Yousaf stated his anger at the Pakistan army for preventing men from fighting against India in Kashmir at the Line of Control .
Yousaf sat beside Sadiqui .
Yousaf said that Pakistan is incomplete without Kashmir .
2002-07-08
Cuba ( CU )
International ; technology ; business ; money ; health ; science ; economy ; government
Cuban biotechnology pharmaceuticals program seeks to expand to overseas markets in developing countries .
The Cuban Government seeks to increase pharmaceutical profits by significantly expanding overseas markets through the development of novel pharmaceuticals and the sale of the world 's most lucrative biotechnology drug , erythropoetin ( EPO ) .
Amgen Inc. invented EPO and shares patent rights with Johnson & Johnson and Kirin Brewery in the most lucrative industrialized markets -- the US , Europe and Japan .
In 2001 EPO generated 6 billion dollars in sales for the 3 corporations .
Amgen sells EPO in the US as epogen for over 36 dollars per dose .
US epogen consumers pay over 10000 dollars each annually for the drug .
EPO is a genetically engineered protein used legally by kidney dialysis and chemotherapy patients and illegally by athletes to increase the concentration of oxygenated red blood cells .
An increasing quantity of biotechnology drugs are produced without any attempts to obtain licenses in developing nations .
US patent holders consider the trade in generic drugs a violation to their intellectual property .
Consumers in developing countries appreciate lower prices on generic drugs .
Cuba considers the generic drug trade good business and currently manufactures EPO for sale in Argentina , Brazil , India and other countries that do not acknowledge most US and European drug patents .
Cuban biotechnology executive Blanca tormo stated that Cuba carefully abides by intellectual property laws and exclusively sells EPO in countries in which no entity has exclusive patent rights .
The largest potential pharmaceutical market is in the 1.3 billion person Chinese market .
Amgen , Kirin , the small Canadian biotechnology company Dragon Pharmaceuticals Inc. and at lease 4 Chinese companies currently sell EPO in China .
The generic product costs as low as 5 dollars per dose in China .
By joining the World Trade Organization in 2001 China agreed to abide by WTO intellectual property agreements but the agreements contain mechanisms allowing developing nations to circumvent patents , particularly in pharmaceuticals , when public health concerns are deemed to override the patents .
Current state of biotechnology in Cuba --
The Cuban biotechnology industry currently generates 100 million dollars annually and reaches markets in over 40 countries .
Cuba 's genetic engineering and biotechnology center occupies modern towers approved by Fidel Castro and employs over 1000 people to engineer proteins to combat major terminal illnesses .
Cuba currently produces novel biotechnology products : hepatitis B and meningitis B vaccines , a skin growth factor , interferons , thrombosis and heart attack medicines and AIDS treatments .
Cuba has produced over 78 million doses of hepatitis B vaccine .
Cuba licensed its meningitis B vaccine to the British company GlaxoSmithKline , which hopes to eventually sell the vaccine in the United States under a Clinton - era exemption to the Cuban trade embargo .
Cuba is cooperating with the small Canadian company YM biosciences on trials of a head and neck cancer treatment .
Cuba is seeking further partnerships with foreign companies in vaccine research for AIDS , 8 types of cancer and cholera .
Cuban officials including attendees of the annual bio 2002 Industry Conference 20020600 in Toronto stated that negotiations for new biotechnology trade and production agreements were in progress with Brazil , Malaysia , Netherlands , Spain , Mexico , Venezuela , Vietnam , Ukraine , Germany and the United States .
Cuba has or is negotiating technology transfer agreements with 14 countries , chiefly developing nations including India , Algeria and South Africa .
20020500 US Undersecretary of State for Arms Control John Bolton stated that the US believes Cuba has at least a limited offensive biological warfare research and development effort and has provided dual - use biotechnology to other rogue states .
Scientists , Castro , and former US President Jimmy Carter , who visited Cuba directly after Bolton 's statement , dismissed Bolton 's statement as unfair .
Tormo stated that Bolton unintentionally increased publicity for the Cuban biotechnology program .
2002-07-18
Russia ( RU )
International ; Government ; technology ; military ; space
Russian military space forces put on test duty an optical space - object tracking facility located in the ex - Soviet republic of Tajikistan
The Russian military space forces on 020718 inaugurated an optical tracking facility that is intended to monitor objects in space and put it on test duty .
The okno optical tracking facility is near the town of Nurek in the central region of the ex - Soviet republic of Tajikistan and located 50 kilometers ( 30 miles ) southeast of the Tajik capital Dushanbe .
Russian Space Forces said in a statement carried by the Interfax - military news agency that the okno ( window ) complex is capable of tracking objects 40000 kilometers ( 24800 miles ) from Earth .
The okno offers a better range and precision than standard radar facilities according to the Space Forces .
The report did not elaborate on how the okno works .
The report saids Space Forces chief Col . - Gen. Anatoly Perminov traveled to the site to report on the facility 's launch to Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov , .
According to images on the Federation of American Scientists ' web site , the facility involves telescope - like equipment housed in several large spheres .
