India and Pakistan have fought 2 wars over Kashmir since each gained independence from Britain in 1947 .
India accuses Pakistan of funding and training rebels fighting to end Indian rule in Kashmir .
Pakistan denies the charge .
Since 1989 more than 37500 people have died in the insurgency in Kashmir .
2003-03-21
Kazakhstan ( KZ )
Weapons ; war and conflict ; military ; terrorism ; international
Kazakhstan increased its air defenses to prevent any missiles fired during the Iraq war from threatening its Caspian coast .
The coast is a home to vital oil industry installation .
On March 21 , 2003 a spokesman for the Central Asian country 's defense ministry said Kazakhstan increased its air defenses to prevent any missiles fired during the Iraq war from threatening its Caspian coast .
The coast is a home to vital oil industry installation .
Defense ministry spokesman abish smailov told AFP that incidents occur when powerful weapons such as Scud missiles are used .
Smailov said that Kazakh air space is controlled at all times using measures involving anti - missile defenses , fighter jets and anti - terrorist units .
Kazakhstan 's increased air defenses come during Kazakhstan 's air force carries out exercises along its Caspian shores .
The shores are a center of Kazakhstan 's nascent oil industry .
Western countries said it is inadequately defended in the event of terrorist attack .
Ex - Soviet Kazakhstan is separated from Iraq by a 600 - kilometer ( 360 - mile ) section of the Caspian Sea and Iranian territory .
Kazakhstan is currently cooperating with the United States on strengthening defenses in this oil - rich area .
Kazakh politicians said that any overthrow of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein could reduce Western interests in exploiting Kazakhstan 's oil fields .
Investors could turn their attention to Iraq 's vast oil resources instead .
2003-03-30
Thailand ( TH ) ; Myanmar ( MM )
International ; narcotics
The methamphetamine pills known as Yaa BAA have surpassed heroin as Thailand 's number one killer drug .
Several million Thai people use the drug .
The methamphetamine pills known as Yaa BAA have surpassed heroin as Thailand 's number one killer drug .
Several million Thai people use the drug .
The pill has become part of Thai society .
No other drug has become as integral in decades .
The effects on the brains of its consumers is disastrous .
Yaa BAA is known as crazy medicine in Thailand .
It has been targeted in a two - month anti - drugs crackdown that has resulted in the deaths of nearly 1,900 suspected traffickers .
There is much concern over the drug .
The drug 's popularity increased in the mid - 1990s .
It has made Thailand the world 's number one consumer .
Pierre - Arnaud chouvy and Joel meissonnier state in their book Yaa BAA recently published by the Institute of Research on contemporary Southeast Asia that the psychotropic drugs is used across society for both work and pleasure .
Construction workers , sailors , farmers and taxi drivers take the drug to help them through long working days .
Students use it to get through exam periods .
Clubbers use it to help them dance all night .
Yaa BAA possesses several qualities that have helped it supplant heroin as the drug of choice in Thailand .
The book states that the drug conveys a completely positive image .
It appears modern and inoffensive because it is synthetic .
The energy , confidence and euphoric feeling has given users an image as a drug of happiness .
The pills can also be easily consumed .
They can be popped or dissolved in a glass of water , taken intravenously , pulverized and inhaled , or smoked .
There are at least 90 types of the pill .
Yaa BAA is easy to manufacture and do not have any climate uncertainties like other drugs have .
Instructions on how to manufacture the drug are available on the Internet .
Heroin requires opium poppy as its raw ingredient and cocaine depends on yields from the coca plant .
The drug has an affordable price .
It cost 60 baht ( 1.50 dollars ) per pill on the streets before Thailand 's drug war started on February 1 , 2003 and push the price up 300 percent .
The pill costs five - cents to produce .
800 million pills entered Thailand from Myanmar last year .
The book states that the majority of the drug comes from Myanmar particularly the areas controlled by the Wa of the UWSA ( United Wa State Army ) .
The book is referring to the pro - Yangon ethnic group said to operate around 50 laboratories close to the border and the mobile production units .
Myanmar could become an unrivaled regional producer because of the links between the military rulers and the UWSA , and the jungle canopy where UWSA operate .
The military and UWSA links result in a lack of law enforcement .
The drug has become a specialty of the Golden Triangle where Thailand , Laos and Myanmar converge .
Much of the world 's opium is still produced there .
Chouvy and meissonnier say that methamphetamine is overtaking heroin as the production drug of choice in the area and is profiting enormously from the distribution networks that heroin trafficking has already established .
Five percent of Thailand 's population is now estimated to abuse methamphetamine .
The International Narcotics Control Bureau says the figure makes it the largest per capita consumer in the world .
The drug has been around in other forms for years .
It was first used in the 1920s as an antidepressant and then as a psychostimulant during World War II and the Vietnam War .
People recruited from impoverished ethnic minorities transport the pills along a multitude of routes .
Myanmar soldiers and Thai police and bureaucrats protect the cargo and allow them to eventually reach consumers in Thailand .
The books states that one pill will pass through seven intermediaries from the frontier runner to the retailer .
The retailer will usually sell more to the drug user than he or she requires .
This creates another dealer and explains the drug 's easy availability across Thailand .
Owners of boats in the southern coastal province of Ranong and construction foremen in Bangkok are known to force their workers to take the drug at the beginning of the workday .
Occasionally in rural areas the farmers dissolve the drug in a bottle which they drink while working .
Consumers are as young as seven and school has become one of the main hubs for trafficking of methamphetamine .
Thailand 's youth are the most at risk .
2003-04-03
Afghanistan ( AF ) ; Pakistan ( PK )
International ; terrorism ; Government ; war and conflict
Afghanistan 's Interior Minister states that Taliban is not capable of destabilizing the Afghan government despite post - winter increase in attacks on government and foreign targets in the country .
Most of the attacks are carried out by Pakistan - based former Taliban members sent into Afghanistan and funded by drug smuggling operations or supporters in Pakistan .
On 03 April 2003 Afghanistan 's Interior Minister Ali Ahmad Jalali stated that Taliban and remaining al-Qaeda militants are not capable of destabilizing the Afghan government despite their increased attacks on government and foreign targets .
Jalali was speaking at his first press conference since taking office in February 2003 .
Jalali stated that the arrival of spring weather was the reason for the increased number of attacks by Taliban and remaining members of Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaeda network .
The traditional fighting season in Afghanistan is spring after the harsh winters .
Jalali stated that due to the warmer spring weather terrorist activities have increased particularly in the south and southeast regions of Afghanistan .
On 02 April 2003 the U.S. State Department stated that security in Afghanistan was volatile and unpredictable following a series of attacks against foreigners .
In a travel advisory the U.S. State Department stated that travel in all areas of Afghanistan including the capital Kabul is unsafe due to military operations , land mines , banditry , armed rivalry among political and tribal groups , and the possibility of terrorist attacks including attacks using vehicular or other bombs .
Taliban and al-Qaeda militants regularly launch attacks on government and foreign targets .
Last week a foreign Red Cross worker was murdered and 2 U.S. special forces were killed in an ambush while on patrol .
Jalali stated --
On 03 April 2003 Afghan militia forces were fighting Taliban extremists for the 3rd day near Spin Boldak in southern Kandahar province near the Pakistani border .
There are approximately 50-60 terrorists in the mountains of the southern Kandahar province and the Kandahar security forces are conducting operations against them .
On 02 April 2003 2 members of the security forces were killed and 1 was wounded .
7 of the terrorists were arrested .
Several former Taliban members were arrested in another operation in southern Ghazni province .
Jalali stated that among the former Taliban members arrested were several well - known former Taliban figures who were in Afghanistan to establish a network of terrorist organizations and to conduct anti - government activities in the area .
Among those arrested was former Taliban Education Minister Shaheed Kheil .
Jalali stated --
Approximately 15 suspected Taliban members were captured in Kandahar and 9 killed in operations launched after the 27 March 2003 murder of the Red Cross worker .
Most of the terrorist attacks are carried out by former Taliban members based across the border in Pakistan .
These members have confessed that they were sent from Pakistan into Afghanistan by the former Taliban leader .
The Pakistan - based former Taliban members conducting the attacks were being funded by former drug smuggling operations or by supporters in Pakistan .
The militants coming across the border from Pakistan into Afghanistan are organized by former Taliban elements .
Funds are transferred to the Pakistan - based former Taliban members from Karachi , Quetta and Peshawar but this does not indicate that the Government of Pakistan is supporting the former Taliban .
It is true that the interrogated Afghan Taliban stated that they had come from Pakistan and received their financial support from Karachi and Quetta but this does not indicate that the Government of Pakistan is supporting them .
There are many fundamentalists across the world as well as in Pakistan and Afghanistan .
2003-04-04
Pakistan ( PK )
International ; narcotics ; crime ; Government ; war and conflict ; weapons
Pakistan 's army - led Anti Narcotics Force seize 1.22 metric tons of opium after gun battle with drug smugglers in Baluchistan province .
On 030406 Pakistani officials stated that Pakistan 's army - led Anti Narcotics Force seized 1.22 metric tons of opium after a gun battle with drug smugglers in the southwestern Pakistani province of Baluchistan .
Anti Narcotics Force officials stated that the street value of the opium was 50 million United States dollars .
Pakistani officials stated that the gun battle took place in the Kharan desert on the Iranian border 212 miles west of the Baluchistan province capital of Quetta late on 030404 .
An Anti Narcotics Force official stated that Anti Narcotics Force agents spotted a vehicle during a routine night patrol of the area west of Quetta along the Pakistan - Iran border , an ANF official said .
An Anti Narcotics Force official stated that when the Anti Narcotics Force motioned the vehicle to stop the vehicle 's occupants opened fire and that the firefight lasted half an hour .
The Anti Narcotics Force official stated that the Anti Narcotics Force team recovered 1.22 metric tons of opium from the vehicle after an exchange of gun fire and arrested the vehicle 's driver .
The Anti Narcotics Force official stated that the drug smugglers managed to escape under the cover of darkness and that the Anti Narcotics Force team recovered three rifles , a machine gun , rocket launcher , two grenades and hundreds of rounds of ammunition from the vehicle .
In 021200 the authorities seized 1130 kilograms of morphine in Baluchistan province .
Late in 020000 the authorities recovered 1100 kilogrammes of hashish and several automatic weapons .
2003-05-22
Egypt ( EG ) ; Saudi Arabia ( SA )
terrorism ; international
A purported Ayman al-Zawahiri recording called for more suicide attacks , highlighting again the role of Egyptians in al-Qaeda , while suspicions grow that another Egyptian , Seif al-Adel , may have been behind the bombings in Saudi Arabia .
In a message aired 030521 by Arabic Qatar 's Al-Jazeera satellite channel , the purported voice of Ayman al-Zawahiri urged Muslims to force Westerners out of Muslim lands by attacking westerners and emulating the 010911 suicide attacks in the United States .
The speaker called for Muslims to muster their resolve and hit the embassies of America , England , Australia and Norway , and strike at the interests , companies and employees of America , England , Australia and Norway .
The speaker urged Muslims to attack and eject Americans , British , Australians and Norwegians out of Muslim homelands .
The speaker told Muslims not to allow Americans , British , Australians , Norwegians or other Western Christians to live in and benefit from the resources of Muslim countries .
Egyptian experts said this audiotape was a genuine recording of Zawahiri 's voice and proved Zawahiri was alive and still as influential as before in al-Qaeda .
Montasser al-Zayat , a lawyer who has represented Islamic militant suspects in Egypt , stated he was certain that the voice on the tape was that of Zawahiri , Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden 's top lieutenant .
Al-Zayat stated that the recording was Zawahiri 's voice , style and manner .
Dia al-Rashwan stated that he believed that the voice was Zawahiri 's and that the message bore Zawahiri 's characteristic emphasis on Islamic militant attacks against Arab governments which are allied to the United States .
Al-Rashwan is a journalist with Egypt 's government daily Al-Ahram and an expert on Islamic militants .
According to Rashwan , while bin Laden has always stressed international targets , Zawahiri has gradually shown increasing support for Arab targets as well .
Rashwan thought it was clear that Zawahiri is still second in command of al-Qaeda and that his stress on local ( Arab ) targets was influencing not only statements and actions by Al-Qaeda itself but also groups inspired by them .
Montasser al-Zayat said that he believed bin Laden was under secure protection with Zawahiri .
Zayat thought that security conditions sometimes dictate which one speaks out .
The situations and locations of Zawahiri , bin Laden and other top al-Qaeda members have been unknown since the United States struck the bases of al-Qaeda and its Taliban supporters in Afghanistan in 011000 .
Rashwan was unable to illuminate suspicions that Seif al-Adel , another Egyptian , might have masterminded the triple suicide bombings that killed 34 people , including 9 bombers , in Riyadh , Suadi Arabia 030512 .
Rashwan and other Egyptian experts said that Adel has become Al-Qaeda 's number 3 in command since becoming chief of military operations and succeeding Abu Hafs al-Masri .
Al-Masri was killed during the war in Afghanistan .
Adel was a top member in the Egyptian Islamic militant movement Al - Jihad .
Al-Jihad was led by Zawahiri and carried out many attacks in Egypt in the 1990s .
Adel left Egypt at the end of the 1980s for a Gulf Arab country , then traveled to Pakistan and then Afghanistan , where he helped train militants at some camps , Egyptian sources said on condition they not be named .
The Egyptian sources also said that Adel is close to both Zawahiri and bin Laden .
A senior Saudi official said 030519 that he believed Adel directed the bombings in Riyadh .
A senior United States official stated that it was still not clear whether Adel had personally been involved .
Like Zawahiri , Adel and Al-Masri were on a list of 12 most wanted suspects released by the US administration following the 010911 attacks .
At least three other Egyptians were also on the list : Tharwat Salah Shehata , Tariq Anwar As - Sayyid Ahmad and Mohammad Salah .
Egyptian security sources said that Ahmad and Salah were killed in the war on terror launched after 010911 .
Ahmad and Salah were believed to have organized suicide attacks .
Shehata , a laywer , is considered by security sources in Egypt to be responsible for Al-Qaeda 's funding .
2003-05-15
India ( IN )
Narcotics ; military
Indian troops already fighting rebels in Kashmir are now engaged in a massive campaign to destroy poppy crops in the region .
Troops are facing angry farmers unaware that poppy cultivation is now punishable as a drug trafficking offense .
Customs officials from the Federal Finance Ministry launched the campaign with security forces on 15 May 2003 in the southern Kashmir already affected by much violence .
The campaign requires troops to confront angry residents desperate to earn a living and unaware they are violating the law .
A similar drive was carried out in 2002 in the same region but did not stop residents from replanting .
Prabhakar stated --
The crop destruction of 2002 has not served as a deterrent .
The State administration has been lax on the issue .
No district official has ever taken steps to destroy the crop nor even reported that poppy crops are grown in his area .
Villagers in this region approximately 30 kilometers ( 18 miles ) south of Kashmir 's summer capital Srinagar stated that cultivating poppy crops was their only livelihood .
Farmer Ghulam Ahmed stated that he and other farmers have been growing poppy crops in their fields for years with no objection from anyone .
Ahmed stated that residents were shocked when officials and troops started destroying their harvest .
Many villagers grow poppy for their seeds used to flavor the Kashmiri bread known as kulcha .
Bakers buy the seeds at 100 rupees ( two U.S. dollars ) per kilogram .
The lucrative byproduct is poppy SAP which can be processed into opium .
Rahti Begum was disconsolate as she watched her crop being destroyed .
2003-06-24
France ( FR ) ; Iran ( Islamic Republic of ) ( IR )
International ; Government ; dissent ; crime ; terrorism ; leader
A Paris judge ordered that 11 members of Iranian armed opposition group the People 's Mujahedeen remain imprisoned .
The members include the People 's Mujahedeen 's symbolic leader Maryam Rajavi .
24 June 2003 -- a Paris judge ordered that 11 members of Iranian armed opposition group the People 's Mujahedeen remain imprisoned .
Court sources stated that the members were placed under investigation for terrorist offenses .
The members include the People 's Mujahedeen 's symbolic leader Maryam Rajavi .
The People 's Mujahedeen views Rajavi as the President - elect of a future Iranian government .
The judge rejected Rajavi 's appeal that the 11 members be freed from preventive detention .
On 22 June 2003 17 members of the People 's Mujahedeen were placed under judicial investigation .
The 17 members included Rajavi .
The investigation is the first step toward formal criminal charges for alleged links between the People 's Mujahedeen and a terrorist organization and for funding terrorist activity .
Last week French police raided more than a dozen locations linked to the People 's Mujahedeen northwest of Paris .
Paris officials have accused the People 's Mujahedeen of using France as a rear base to plan attacks against Iranian interests .
A series of demonstrations in Paris and Europe protested the raids .
10 people set themselves on fire at the raids .
A woman in Paris and a woman in London died from injuries incurred by setting themselves on fire .
Several dozen supporters staged a hunger strike at the headquarters of the National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) .
More than 10 of the hunger strikers have been treated in hospital for dehydration .
Approximately 160 people have been detained in the police crackdown on the People 's Mujahedeen .
.
The People 's Mujahedeen has been classified by the US , the EU and Iran as a terrorist organization .
The People 's Mujahedeen armed wing occupying bases in Iraq have been neutralized by US forces .
The People 's Mujahedeen has accused French authorities of carrying out their operation as part of a deal with Iran .
Iran denies having such a deal with France .
The NCRI is the People 's Mujahedeen 's political front in Auvers - sur - Oise .
Hunger strikers were affected by France 's heat wave .
Temperatures in Auvers - sur - Oise have reached 35 degrees Celsius ( 95 degrees Fahrenheit ) .
2003-06-30
Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP ) ; Korea , Republic of ( KR ) ; United States ( US )
proliferation ; science ; international ; politics
A 5 billion United States dollar North Korean nuclear reactor project is contingent upon progress of discussions between North Korea and South Korea regarding North Korea 's desire to obtain nuclear weapons .
Charles Kartman stated on 030630 that the 5 billion United States dollar North Korean nuclear reactor project is contingent upon progress of discussions between North Korea and South Korea regarding North Korea 's desire to obtain nuclear weapons .
Officials stated that Charles Kartman made the statement during talks with South Korean Foreign Minister Yoon Young - kwan .
Charles Kartman is executive director of the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization .
Wi Sung - lac stated to reporters that Charles Kartman stated that the North Korean nuclear reactor project is linked to North Korea 's problem with nuclear weapons .
Wi Sung - lac is the head of the South Korean Foreign Ministry 's North American Affairs Bureau .
Wi Sung - lac stated that Charles Kartman stated that North Korea 's participation in the multilateral talks proposed by the United States to settle the nuclear crisis would help Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization resolve any policy differences over the North Korean nuclear reactor project .
Wi Sung - lac stated that Japan seems to have taken a similar position to south Korea and that there seems to be no determined policy despite various opinions in the United States .
Wi Sung - lac refused to give any details about the North Korean nuclear reactor project .
The Yonhap News Agency stated that Charles Kartman would reaffirm that the North Korean nuclear reactor project may not be completed if the North Korean government continued to pursue a nuclear agenda .
The United States Government has reportedly suggested the North Korean nuclear reactor project be halted as part of growing diplomatic pressure on the South Korean government .
South Korea has so far taken a cautious stance on the issue of the North Korean nuclear reactor project .
The Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization was created under a 940000 Agreed Framework between North Korea and the United States .
The Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization was to provide North Korea with 2 light - water nuclear reactors deemed unsuitable for weapons production and 500000 metric tons of heavy fuel oil per year .
Construction on the 2 light - water nuclear reactors started in 020800 and is already behind schedule .
Construction on 1 of the 2 light - water nuclear reactors was originally planned to be completed in 030000 .
The Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization has maintained construction work on the 2 light - water nuclear reactors and has suspended shipments of fuel oil to North Korea from 021200 at the height of the nuclear stand - off which intensified in 021000 when the North Korean government admitted to running a nuclear weapons program based on enriched uranium .
The 940000 Agreed Framework between North Korea and the United States required North Korea to stop the use of graphite - moderate reactors used to produce weapons - grade plutonium at North Korea 's Yongbyon nuclear plant .
North Korea did not adhere to the 940000 agreed framework .
North Korea unsealed spent fuel rods from the graphite - moderate reactors , removed International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors and withdrew from a nuclear non - proliferation treaty .
On 030609 North Korea admitted publicly for the first time that North Korea was seeking nuclear weapons capability .
United States officials do not know how far North Korea 's nuclear weapons program has progressed .
United States officials believe the North Korean government has already stockpiled enough plutonium for 1 or 2 nuclear weapons .
North Korea and the United States sat down for their first talks in three - way negotiations with China in 030400 but no further meetings have been scheduled .
United States government is seeking support from its allies to cut North Korea 's alleged funding from the sales of arms , illegal drugs and currency counterfeiting .
North Korea has accused the United States of planning a blockade of North Korea .
2003-07-01
Vietnam ( VN )
International ; crime ; narcotics
Vietnamese police made several arrests after uncovering two networks trafficking drugs from Laos and Cambodia .
Vietnam state media reported on 1 July 2003 that an Australian man of Vietnamese origin and a Lao National were arrested after Vietnamese police uncovered two networks trafficking drugs from Laos and Cambodia .
The Vietnam News Agency said Australian national Tran Van Thanh was arrested on 30 June 2003 in the southern Vietnam city of dalat for Tran 's involvement in a network smuggling heroin from Cambodia to Australia via Vietnam .
The news agency reports that police transferred Tran to Ho Chi Minh City where Tran 's Vietnamese accomplice , Pham Dai Nhon , was arrested on 29 June 2003 with more than 600 grams ( 1.3 pounds ) of heroin .
Anti - drug police on 1 July 2003 also arrested a Lao National named khamkhuong unmano as police broke up a gang trafficking the psychoactive pharmaceutical bromazepam from Laos to Vietnam .
Unmano 's wife and unmano 's brother and sister - in - law were 3 of unmano 's Vietnamese partners and were arrested on 30 June 2003 in Hanoi .
The 2 couples told police they had trafficked more than 60000 pills of bromazepam .
Police also seized more than 90000 pills of bromazepam , a car and close to 40000 US dollars following a raid at the unmanos ' houses .
Vietnam has some of the strictest drug laws in the world .
Anyone found in possession of 300 grams ( 10 ounces ) or more of heroin or 10 kilograms ( 22 pounds ) or more of opium could face the death penalty .
2003-07-03
Sweden ( SE )
International ; weapons ; proliferation ; politics
The Swedish Government appointed Hans Blix to head a new independent international commission on weapons of mass destruction on July 3 , 2003 .
The Swedish government on July 3 , 2003 appointed Hans Blix to head a new independent commission on weapons of mass destruction .
Anna Lindh stated that it is very gratifying that Hans Blix is willing to accept the chairmanship because the experience and knowledge Hans Blix possesses is unique .
Anna Lindh stated that the Commission would provide impetus to disarmament and the non - proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and missiles .
Anna Lindh stated that the Commission will be formed in the fall of 2003 and will submit recommendations in 2005 .
Hans Blix is the former United Nations weapons chief inspector in Iraq .
Hans Blix retired from the United Nations post on June 30 , 2003 .
Hans Blix is also a former Minister for Foreign Affairs and directed the Chairman of the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission for 3 years .
The Swedish Foreign Minister Anna Lindh stated that Sweden must do everything possible to avert the threat posed by weapons of mass destruction .
In July 2003 the Foreign Ministry of Sweden was opening a new section specializing in disarmament .
Anna Lindh stated the opening of the new section is one more way to express the Swedish Government 's commitment in disarmament .
Lindh also expressed hope for Sweden to succeed in spreading knowledge of and arousing further interest in issues concerning disarmament .
The United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission began working in Iraq in November 2003 after the regime of former president Saddam Hussein gave way to the threat of United States military action .
Hans Blix stated that he had been undermined by individuals in the Pentagon because the individuals issued criticism in the U.S. press regarding Hans Blix 's cautious approach and failure to locate any weapons of mass destruction in Iraq .
Hans Blix stated that the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission did not have enough time to complete inspection before the United States led invasion in Iraq .
Hans Blix also stated that fact that the United States was now calling for patience while completing a United States led search for the suspected weapons was ironic .
The United Nations Monitoring , Verification , and inspection group was set up in December 1999 .
2003-07-15
Australia ( AU ) ; Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP ) ; United States ( US )
International ; weapons ; proliferation
On 030715 Australia 's government dismissed a threat by a North Korean spokesman of a North Korean nuclear attack on Australia if Australia took part in an international operation to stop ships trafficking weapons of mass destruction .
On 030715 Australia 's government dismissed a threat by North Korea 's self - appointed spokesman of a North Korean nuclear attack on Australia if Australia takes part in an international operation to prevent ships from trafficking weapons of mass destruction .
North Korea 's self - appointed spokesman is the Executive Director of the Centre for Korean - American peace named Kim Myong - Chol .
Kim Myong - Chol purports to speak for the North Korean government and stated ABC television from Tokyo late on 030714 that North Korea would strike United States ships interdicting North Korean vessels .
Kim Myong - Chol warned that if there was an interdiction of North Korean vessels the North Korean government would retaliate with a nuclear missile attack on major cities such as New York and Washington .
Kim Myong - Chol warned that if Australia took part in interdicting North Korean vessels that Australia could also be attacked .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that the official North Korean position is , if Australia becomes part of American manipulation against North Korea then North Korea reserves the right to attack Australia .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that North Korea is capable of reaching the Australian mainland anytime .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that Australia lacks the capacity to reach North Korea .
On 030715 Foreign Minister Alexander Downer stated that Kim Myong - Choi 's comments carried no authority .
Alexander Downer stated that Kim Myong - Chol is a self - appointed voice belonging to a North Korean Support Group in Japan .
Alexander Downer stated that the maritime force proposed to stop trafficking in illicit weapons and drugs would operate within the frame of international law and it did not appear at this stage that any changes would be needed to strengthen international law to allow the operation to procede .
Kim Myong - Chol warned astralian Prime Minister John Howard to carefully consider his approach to the North Korean issue .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that the North Korean message is for Australia to watch what they say or Australia will be harmed .
Prime Minister John Howard was due to leave the Philippines on 030715 for Tokyo on the second leg of his three - nation Asian tour to rally support for the United States initiative under which an international interception force may be launched to stop countries such as North Korea from importing and exporting illicit weapons and drugs .
Australia is one of 11 nations which have endorsed the United States initiative and has agreed to join United States led military training exercises in 030900 .
The United States initiative 's goals are to partially increase pressure on North Korea .
North Korea has claimed nuclear ambitions and currently North Korea is reported to have missiles aimed at Japan .
2003-07-15
Australia ( AU ) ; Korea , Democratic People 's Republic of ( KP )
International ; Government ; weapons ; military ; proliferation ; war and conflict
Australia dismisses North Korea 's threat to strike Australia with nuclear weapons if Australia participates in an operation to stop ships from trafficking weapons of mass destruction .
On 030715 Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer dismissed North Korea 's threat to strike Australia with nuclear weapons if Australia participates in an United States led operation to stop ships from trafficking weapons of mass destruction .
Kim Myong - Chol is the Executive Director of the Centre for Korean - American peace .
Kim Myong - Chol purports to be a spokesman for the North Korea government .
Kim Myong - Chol stated to ABC television from Tokyo late 030714 that North Korea would retaliate against United States ships interdicting North Korean vessels .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that North Korea would retaliate with a nuclear missile attack on major cities such as New York and Washington DC .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that Australia would be attacked if Australia was part of the interdiction of North Korean vessels .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that the official North Korean position was that North Korea reserves the right to strike back against Australia if Australia becomes part of American manipulation against North Korea .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that North Korea had reprocessed 8000 nuclear fuel rods at North Korea 's Yongbyon nuclear facility located north of Pyongyang and that North Korea is capable of reaching the Australian mainland anytime .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that Australia has no capacity to reach North Korea .
Alexander Downer dismissed Kim Myong - Chol 's threat .
Alexandert Downer stated that Kim Myong - Chol 's statements were without authority and that North Korea did not have weapons with the range to reach Australia .
In a statement Alexander Downer stated that Kim Myong - Chol is a self - appointed voice belonging to a North Korean Support Group in Japan .
Alexander Downer stated that Australia does not believe North Korea would launch a nuclear attack against Australia or that North Korea has the capacity to fire nuclear missiles as far as Australia .
Alexandert Downer stated doubts that North Korea was even capable of firing a nuclear missiles .
Alexander Downer stated that the maritime force proposed to stop trafficking in illicit weapons and drugs would operate within the frame of international law and it did not appear at this stage that any changes would be needed to strengthen international law to allow the operation to go ahead .
Alexander Downer stated that the conclusion of the Group of 11 countries endorsing the operation to stop ships trafficking weapons of mass destruction has been that they are acting within established international law and that the Group of 11 countries thinks that there is quite a strong legal foundation already in place to be able to interdict ships carrying nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons components .
Kim Myong - Chol stated to ABC television that Prime Minister John Howard should carefully consider how the issue of the threat is approached .
Kim Myong - Chol stated to ABC television that the North Korean message is for Australia to be careful with Australia says and that if Australia is not careful then Australia will be harmed .
Kim Myong - Chol stated that North Korea is carefully monitoring all Australian behavior and that Australia must be careful how Australia acts towards North Korea .
The comments by Kim Myong - Chol followed a strong warning by Howard on Sunday that war was not yet inevitable but the global community expected North Korea to wind back its nuclear weapons program .
John Howard had planned to leave the Philippines 030715 to travel to Tokyo on the second leg of a three - nation Asia tour to rally support for the United States plan that allows an international interception force to be launched against countries trafficking in illicit weapons and drugs .
Australia is one of 11 nations that have endorsed the United States plan and have agreed to join United States led military exercises in 030900 .
The part of the purpose of the United States plan is to increase pressure on North Korea .
North Korea has boasted of nuclear ambitions and North Korea is now reported to have missiles trained on Japan .
2003-07-18
China ( CN ) ; Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP )
International ; Government ; weapons
The Chinese government 's recent conclusion that North Korea has enough plutonium to build a nuclear bomb has resulted in urgent diplomacy and plans for new talks .
Chinese deputy foreign minister was dispatched to North Korea to meet with Kim Jong - Il in an attempt to deescalate the situation .
Chinese diplomats were quoted in the Asian Wall Street Journal on 18 July 2003 as stating that China believes North Korea currently has enough plutonium to build a nuclear bomb .
This belief caused the Government of China to accelerate diplomacy to resolve the crisis and to dispatch Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo to Pyongyang , North Korea on 12 July 2003 in this effort .
China is North Korea 's closest ally .
North Korea is a Stalinist regime .
Dai is presently in Washington D.C. to inform top U.S. policymakers of the outcome of the rare meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong - Il .
The newspaper stated that in recent weeks Chinese intelligence services concluded that North Korea is producing weapons - grade plutonium in sufficient quantities and possesses all the necessary components to assemble nuclear - tipped missiles .
A European official familiar with internal Chinese reports on the findings and Chinese diplomats were quoted in the newspaper as stating that the reprocessed plutonium is estimated to be sufficient to make at least 1 nuclear device .
The European official stated that North Korea has yet to combine the plutonium , triggering devices and other components into a bomb .
The Chinese reports in part verify recent claims made by the Government of North Korea that a number of spent nuclear fuel rods sealed in 1994 have been opened and have undergone reprocessing ostensibly to produce plutonium .
Until now China had stated that no evidence existed that North Korea was seeking nuclear weapons .
The U.S. government has been unable to confirm the North Korean government 's claims .
U.S. and South Korean officials have speculated that North Korea may have 1 or 2 nuclear bombs and may have the capacity to build 6 .
The Chinese government 's increasing concern was made evident by the new urgency of its diplomacy this week .
At a foreign ministry briefing on 17 July 2003 spokesman Kong Quan stated that the North Korean crisis was at a critical point .
Kong Quan stated that China is attempting to deescalate the situation by promoting talks and encouraging the 2 parties to make peace .
Kong Quan stated that it is important that the parties return to negotiations and continue with the trilateral talks that commenced in April 2003 .
The trilateral talks of April ended poorly with the North Korean government stating it possessed and might test nuclear weapons .
According to U.S. officials there is now a greater possibility that new talks could occur as North Korea appears willing to join another negotiating session with China and the United States .
There were also indications that the dialogue could be expanded to include Japan and South Korea .
South Korean officials have been quoted as saying that a dialogue could take place as early as August 2003 .
The United States government has always insisted on multilateral talks and has been eager to include its Japanese and South Korean allies .
North Korea has consistently demanded 1 - on - 1 talks with the U.S. government .
The Government of China emphasizes that it is more important to resume talks quickly than to refrain until the number of participants can be agreed upon .
China is a traditional ally and supplier of food and fuel to North Korea China and is therefore the country with the most leverage over North Korea .
China has demonstrated that it is willing to take advantage of this leverage .
Earlier in the crisis China stopped oil supplies to North Korea for several days .
2 days after North Korean leader Kim Jong - Il granted Dai the rare meeting for 14 July 2003 the regime 's Korean Central News Agency announced that China had recently decided to donate 10000 tons of diesel oil to North Korea .
2003-07-20
Thailand ( TH ) ; China ( CN ) ; Lao People 's Democratic Republic ( LA ) ; India ( IN ) ; Myanmar ( MM )
Narcotics ; international ; politics
Thailand will host ministers from China , Laos , India and Myanmar to discuss the elimination of precursor chemicals used in drug production .
Officials report that ministers from China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand will hold talks this week in the northern Thai town of Chiang Rai aimed at eliminating precursor chemicals used in drug production .
The meeting will take place from 22 July 2003 - 25 July 2003 in one of the corners of the Golden Triangle and is the first of its kind .
The meeting will be attended by the ministers responsible for drug suppression in China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand .
Thai Justice Minister pongthep Thepkanjana will host the meeting .
Deputy chief of Thailand 's office of Narcotics Control Board ( ONCB ) rasanee Vistaveth stated the ministers from China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand are expected to adopt the Chiang Rai Declaration which will touch on the countries ' commitment to solving the problem of drugs , particularly with regard to precursors and chemical trafficking .
Ephedrine and pseudoephedrine are contained in legal medicines and are used to produce illegal stimulants including speed or ice which are produced in large quantities in Myanmar and then trafficked to Thailand and China and beyond .
Chemical precursors are also used to turn raw opium into heroin .
Rasanee stated the ministers from China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand expect to openly discuss their countries ' weak points and the measures each country is taking to control these substances and prevent the substances from reaching the Golden Triangle area .
Rasanee said the governments of China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand will explore ways to cooperate to intercept the illegal substances which are also used in legitimate industries .
Rasanee stated every country has its own way of controlling precursors but as matter of fact many precursors still flood the Golden Triangle area .
The ministers from China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand will also address crop substitution initiatives for impoverished ethnic minorities who still rely on opium cultivation .
Rasanee referred to Thailand 's successful decades - long campaign to eliminate poppy growing from its territory and reported that Thailand is willing to help and share its own expertise on opium elimination by training officials .
The ministers from China , Laos , India , Myanmar and Thailand will discuss how to find markets for goods produced under crop substitution and other related programs such as eco - tourism and handicraft manufacturing .
2003-08-03
Iran , Islamic Republic of ( IR )
International ; media ; weapons ; technology ; science ; government
La times probe finds strong evidence that Iran appears to be in the late stages of developing the capacity to build a nuclear bomb .
The Los Angeles Times in the 030804 edition Summarized results of an independent probe which strongly indicated that Iran is striving to become the world 's next nuclear power and appears to be in the late stages of developing the capacity to build a nuclear bomb .
The Los Angeles Times said the 3 - month investigation drew on previously secret reports , international officials , independent experts , Iranian exiles and intelligence sources and uncovered strong evidence that Iran 's commercial program masked a military undertaking .
The Times report said that scientists from Russia , China , North Korea and Pakistan plus advancing technology have propelled Iran 's nuclear program much closer to producing a bomb than Iraq ever was .
The Times pointed out that some experts predict Iran might produce an initial atomic weapon in the next 2-3 years .
No one is certain about the actual time frame for Iran 's nuclear weapon production .
Nuclear materials :
The Times said a confidential report prepared by the French Government in 030500 concluded that Iran is surprisingly close to having enriched uranium or plutonium for a bomb .
A foreign intelligence service provided a copy of the report to the times .
The French government warned other governments in the report to exercise the most serious vigilance on their exports to Iran and Iranian front companies .
The Times report said that samples of uranium taken by UN inspectors in Iran in 030600 tested positive for enrichment levels high enough to be consistent with an attempt to build a nuclear weapon .
The Iranian government also secretly imported 1.8 tons of nuclear material from China in 910000 and processed some of this nuclear material in order to manufacture uranium metal .
This uranium would be of no use in Iran 's commercial program but would be integral to weapons production .
foreign scientists ' involvement :
The Times quoted an unnamed Middle Eastern intelligence official that Pakistan 's role was bigger than thought from the beginning .
Abdul Qadeer Khan has helped Iran for years and is a Pakistani nuclear scientist regarded by the United States as a purveyor of nuclear secrets .
The Times said people inside Iran and foreign intelligence officials say that North Korean military scientists had been recently monitored entering Iranian nuclear facilities and are assisting in the design of a nuclear warhead .
There is a resort on the Caspian coast set aside for the exclusive use of North Koreans who are working on nuclear and missile projects in Iran .
This indicates the number of North Koreans working in Iran on such projects .
Russian scientists sometimes travel to Iran under false identities and work without the Russian government 's approval to help complete a special reactor that could produce weapons - grade plutonium .
New technology :
The report said Iranians have also approached European companies in recent months to buy devices that can manipulate large volumes of radioactive material .
This technology is for forging uranium metal and plutonium and switches that could trigger a nuclear weapon .
European intelligence sources said list of items the Iranians have wished to procure was a strong indication that Iran has moved to the late stages of weapons development .
2003-11-29
Iran ( IR )
International ; proliferation
Iran pledges to provide nuclear information to IAEA and sign nuclear protocol before 20040200 but not to indefinitely suspend uranium enrichment
20031129 Secretary of Iran 's Supreme National Security Council and senior Iranian nuclear official Hassan Rowhani stated --
By 20040200 when director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency of the UN Mohammed El-Baradei presents a new report Iran will provide all required information and means of verification to the IAEA .
The Iranian government will soon authorize its representative to the IAEA to sign the additional protocol to the Non - Proliferation Treaty .
20031126 the IAEA passed a resolution condemning Iran for 18 years of covert nuclear activities .
The resolution contained a passage warning that any further non - proliferation breaches by Iran would occasion stern action .
The US demanded that the Iranian government be brought before the UN Security Council for possible sanctions while Britain , France and Germany demanded that Iran be rewarded for cooperating with the IAEA since 20031000 but neither demand was met by the resolution .
Prior to 20031129 Rowhani had made no statement after the 20031126 IAEA resolution .
Rowhani stated --
The suspension of uranium enrichment is provisional and voluntary and intended to build confidence .
Iran continues to refuse to indefinitely suspend its uranium enrichment activities and reserves the right to recommence enrichment at any moment .
Iran 's uranium enrichment has prompted international concern that Iran may be capable of constructing an atomic bomb .
Iran stated that the purpose its nuclear activities is peaceful .
Rowhani stated that Iran wants to use enriched uranium to supply fuel for a future civil center .
Rowhani stated that the Iranian government will discuss with European governments the transfer of modern technology , nuclear technology and fuel to Iran .
An unprecedented mission by the foreign ministers of Britain , France and Germany in 20031000 convinced the Iranian government to --
Declare the entirety of the country 's nuclear activities .
Suspend uranium enrichment .
Sign the NPT additional protocol allowing stricter inspections of Iranian nuclear facilities .
2003-12-02
China ( CN ) ; Germany ( DE )
technology ; international ; business ; environment
German technology group Siemens stated that negotiations had begun between Siemens and China to export an unused plutonium - processing facility to China .
On 031202 a German technology group named Siemens stated that delicate negotiations had begun between Siemens and China to export an unused plutonium - processing facility to China and that the negotiations had support from Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder .
Gerhard Schroeder is currently visiting China .
News of the potential sale of the plutonium - processing facility came after Gerhard Schroeder met on 031201 with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao .
German government sources stated that Wen Jiabao expressed interest in the plutonium - processing facility during the 031201 meeting with Gerhard Schroeder and that Gerhard Schroeder then promised to study Wen Jiabao 's request to purchase the plutonium - processing facility .
Gerhard Schroeder is on day 2 of a 3 day visit to China .
Gerhard Schroeder has visited China 5 times since 990000 and has focused the visits on boosting economic relations .
Gerhard Schroeder is accompanied by a strong business delegation including Siemens boss Heinrich von Pierer .
Any sale of plutonium - processing facility between China and Siemens is likely to be highly politically contentious and would need the approval of Gerhard Schroeder 's centre - left ruling coalition .
Gerhard Schroeder 's centre - left ruling coalition includes the environmentalist Greens .
A previous proposal to export the plutonium - processing facility to Russia collapsed in 010000 amid political concerns .
The political concerns were voiced by the Greens and others .
A Siemens spokesman in Germany stated that Heinrich von Pierer stated that Siemens was beginning talks with interested Chinese parties about a sale of the plutonium - processing facility .
A Siemens spokesman in Germany stated that Heinrich von Pierer stated that Gerhard Schroeder stated that Gerhard Schroeder is not against the sale of the plutonium - processing facility in principle .
A Siemens spokesman in Germany stated to the Agence France - Presse that Siemens was confident about the outcome of the talks to sell the plutonium - processing facility .
A Siemens spokesman in Germany refrained from commenting on the political aspect of the sale of the plutonium - processing facility .
A Siemens spokesman in Germany stated that export permission would be needed from the German Government and that the speed of any sale of the plutonium - processing facility would be contingent upon obtaining the correct political support .
A Chinese delegation has already inspected the plutonium - processing facility at Hanau in western Germany and Siemens has lodged an application for an export licence .
A spokeswoman for Germany 's Federal exports office confirmed Siemens 's application for an export licence had been lodged with Germany 's Federal exports office .
A spokeswoman for Germany 's Federal exports office stated to Agence France - Presse that the application for an export licence was being studied at ministerial level due to the political considerations involved .
The political aspect of the sale of the plutonium - processing facility will be difficult to negotiate .
The plutonium - processing facility is described as Europe 's largest plutonium plant producing fuel for nuclear reactors and was completed in 910000 at a cost of 700 million euros .
The plutonium - processing facility never went into operation and was abandoned in 950000 .
The Hanau plutonium - processing facility was abandoned after safety concerns .
Siemens stated that the Hanau plutonium - processing facility was also abandoned due to political difficulties at a time of growing debate about the future of nuclear power .
The Environment Minister of Hesse state was the Greens member Joschka Fischer who is now Germany 's Foreign Minister .
Hesse state includes Hanau where the plutonium - processing facility is located .
The plutonium - processing facility is estimated to be worth about 50 million euros on 031202 .
Siemens would not comment on the plutonium - processing facility 's estimated value of 50 million euros .
The environmental group Greenpeace urged the German Government to refuse the sale of the plutonium - processing facility .
Greenpeace stated that any sale of the plutonium - processing facility would effectively mark a German contribution to political destabilisation in the Far East .
Greenpeace stated that the fuel of the plutonium - processing facility could be refined to extract weapons - grade material and that the plutonium - processing facility should be scrapped .
2003-12-04
Germany ( DE ) ; China ( CN )
International ; technology ; energy ; Government ; business ; environment
A Chinese company has discussed buying a plutonium factory from a German technology group .
German Defence Minister Peter Struck stated that Germany will export a plutonium facility to China only if China guarantees to use it only for peaceful purposes .
4 December 2003 German Defense Minister Peter Struck stated that Germany will export a plutonium facility to China only if China guarantees to use it only for peaceful purposes .
The export is controversial .
Struck spoke in an interview to the Neue Presse daily .
The ruling centre - left coalition has criticized the proposed sale of the plutonium facility .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder stated earlier this week he will investigate China 's request to buy the plutonium facility .
Schroeder recently visited China .
Struck stated --
Schroeder is correct to promise to examine the proposed exportation .
China must guarantee that the plutonium factory will not be used for military purposes but to produce atomic energy .
The sale is a highly emotional subject .
Struck is confident the coalition will settle its disagreements .
If China makes the guarantee struck will not be concerned about the sale of the facility .
Earlier on 4 December 2003 Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao stated --
A Chinese company discussed a possible sale of the facility with owner German technology group Siemens .
The facility would be used for civil purposes and has no military goal .
The facility would have nothing to do with non - proliferation issues .
The facility was completed in 1991 .
The facility would have been Europe 's largest plant producing fuel for atomic power stations .
The facility never went into operation .
In 1995 the facility was abandoned under pressure from environmentalist party the Greens .
The Greens party is now junior partner in Schroeder 's coalition .
Senior green members such as co - leader Angelika Beer demand the sale to China be refused .
Germany is phasing out atomic energy for environmental reasons and senior green members state that it would be hypocritical of Germany to export an atomic energy facility .
According to press reports Greens Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer has agreed to a sale .
Some members of of Schroeder 's Social Democrat Party protest the sale .
Schroeder has publicly expressed his support of the sale .
The plutonium facility is located in Hanau , western Germany .
Joschka Fischer is the Greens ' most charismatic figure .
2003-12-09
Brazil ( BR )
International ; crime ; Government ; politics ; weapons
Brazil 's Senate approves legislation increasing firearm purchase age and proposing a 2005 referendum on the banning of gun sales .
20031209 77 of 81 members of the Brazilian Senate approved restrictions on the sale of firearms and enhanced sentences for those found guilty of trafficking illegal guns .
The legislation increases minimum age for purchasing a firearm from 21 to 25 and proposes a referendum on the ban of firearm sales in 20051000 .
The lower chamber of deputies has already passed the bill .
The legislation must be signed into law by President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva to take effect .
Senator Cesar Borges of the liberal Front party sponsored the bill and stated that the reduction of Brazil 's 50000 annual gun deaths would be a momentous achievement .
Brazil has one of the world 's highest rates of gun - related murders .
2003-12-16
Yemen ( Ye )
terrorism ; international
Al-Qaeda officer Mohammed Hamdi al-Ahdal reveals under interrogation that Saudis and Yemenis were involved in funding two terrorist attacks in Yemen .
Sources close to the investigation said on 031216 that al-Qaeda officer Mohammed Hamdi al-Ahdal has revealed under interrogation that unnamed Saudis and Yemenis were involved in funding two terrorist attacks in Yemen .
Saudi - born adhal 's alias is Abu Issam al-Maki and was al-Qaeda 's leader in Yemen .
Ahdal was arrested 031100 .
Ahdal revealed that the financing of the attacks against the USS Cole in 001000 and the French supertanker Limburg in 021000 October and other terrorist attacks went through Ahdal and originated from Saudis and Yemenis residing outside .
Ahdal told investigators the money came in installments and in small quantities in order to avoid detection .
Ahdal told the investigators all the financial and technical preparations for the attacks of both the USS Cole and Limburg were supervised by Ahdal and revealed that one of the two suicide bombers in the USS Cole attack carried the family name of Al - thore .
The Saudi - owned Al-majala weekly magazine 's current edition said that Saudis and Yemenis were implicated in the terrorist attacks in Yemen .
Al-majala said the Government of Yemen informed Saudi authorities of information revealed by Ahdal under investigation reagrding Saudi persons involved in the funding and that Yemeni authorities are preparing to receive Saudi officers in joining the investigation .
Al-majala said Yemeni authorities refused a Saudi request asking for Ahdal to be extradited for interrogation in Saudi Arabia because the Yemeni Constitution disallows the handing over of Yemeni citizens regardless of any charges .
A Saudi team of investigators is currently in Yemen .
Yemeni authorities believe Ahdal is the second - in - command to Ali Qaed Sunian al-Harithi .
Ali Qaed Sunian al-Harithi 's alias was Abu Ali al-Harithi .
