2002-01-05
Saudi Arabia ( SA )
International ; military ; terrorism
The Riyadh - based Naif Arab Academy for Security Sciences said in a statement that it was running a two - week workshop for 50 anti - terrorism experts .
On 5 January 2002 pan - Arab anti - terror academy Naif Arab Academy for Security Sciences reopened for the first time since the September 2001 terror attacks on the US .
Naif Arab Academy for Security Sciences is based in Riyadh .
Naif Arab Academy for Security Sciences is run by an Arab Interior Ministers ' Council .
In a statement Naif Arab Academy for Security Sciences announced --
It will sponsor a 2 - week workshop for 50 anti - terrorism experts .
The workshop 's anti - terrorism experts are from 11 Arab countries including Algeria , Bahrain , Egypt , Jordan , Lebanon , Mauritania , Morocco , Saudi Arabia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen .
The workshop 's anti - terrorism experts belong to anti - terror squads in Arab security agencies and Anti - Organized Crime Units .
Some specialize in dealing with kidnapping and hostage - taking scenarios .
The workshop will address several terrorism - related issues including political factors leading to terror , the role of religion in fighting terrorists and economic factors that support crime and terrorism .
The workshop will study the use of the Internet to promote terrorism and the Internet 's role in facilitating money transactions and funding terrorist groups .
In April 1998 Arab countries signed an anti - terrorism agreement that binds the signatories to coordinate to fight terrorism .
2002-01-07
North Korea ( KP )
proliferation ; international
A United Nation nuclear team will make a week - long visit to North Korea this weekend to inspect the Stalinist state 's controversial nuclear site .
Government sources said on January 7 , 2002 that a united nation nuclear team will make a week - long visit to North Korea this weekend to inspect the Stalinist state 's controversial nuclear site .
The upcoming visit is viewed as part of the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) drive to clarify North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
A government source stated the visit by a group of IAEA safety experts is scheduled to last for a week beginning January 12 , 2002 .
The source stated that the inspection would focus on an isotope production laboratory in the Yongbyon nuclear complex which is north of North Korea 's capital Pyongyang .
The IAEA tour of the isotope production laboratory will unlikely give a full picture of North Korea 's suspected nuclear weapons ambitions .
The tour was a surprise offer made by North Korea in November 2001 .
IAEA accepted North Korea 's proposal last month but cautioned that the proposal is not a breakthrough .
IAEA also stated the lab is not one of the frozen facilities it wants to look into .
IAEA is based in Vienna and is the UN 's nuclear supervisor .
North Korea has denied the IAEA full access to its facilities .
North Korea froze its suspected nuclear weapons program at Yongbyon in exchange for receiving two nuclear reactors producing less weapons - grade plutonium under a 1994 accord with the United States .
The 4.6 - billion - dollar project was due to be completed by 2003 .
Delays have pushed back the finish until at least 2008 .
Pyongyang insists it will allow full IAEA inspections only when a significant portion of the project as defined in the 1994 accord is completed .
2002-01-11
South Korea ( KR )
International ; politics ; Telecom
South Koreans rallied on January 11 , 2002 in support of their right to eat dog meat .
They threatened an Internet war as part of a campaign to defend the traditional cuisine .
South Koreans rallied on January 11 , 2002 in support of their right to eat dog meat .
They threatened an Internet war as part of a campaign to defend the traditional cuisine .
A nationalist group has vowed cyber hostilities against U.S. based media company Warner Bros . and one of France 's state - run television channels .
The activists accuse the organizations of being culturally - biased and insulting .
A South Korean group has announced a campaign backed by food scientists to promote the eating of dog meat .
This announcement was in response to increasing foreign criticism of the way dogs are slaughtered in South Korea .
The killing of dogs for restaurants has become a more popular topic than the football World Cup finals .
The World Cup finals are to be co - hosted by South Korea and Japan this year .
The debate was partly fueled by FIFA , football 's international governing body .
FIFA urged South Korea to prevent the inhumane killing of dogs .
South Koreans are angered by the international pressure on their traditional cuisine .
The organizers of South Korean website antijapan . wo . ro vowed to paralyze the websites of Warner Bros . ( www.wpix.com ) and the French state television network ( www.francetv.fr ) on January 19 , 2002 .
The organizers of the South Korean website accused the broadcasters of falsely describing South Koreans and their food culture as barbaric .
The anti - Japan group stated that South Korean culture is under attack .
The statement was made to gain supporters to join the lobbying .
Cyber warfare has become a common weapon for South Koreans .
They are one of the most Internet savvy nations in the world .
South Korean cyber campaigners disabled Japanese education ministry websites last year in a protest against history books accused of skimming Japan 's wartime record in Asia .
The nationalist group was formed to campaign against Japan .
The group said the foreign broadcasters are battering the eating dogmeat culture and that it is insulting behavior .
It tramples on a tradition of one country .
The group said the foreign broadcasters do not show any remorse for their culture of eating snails and horses .
The cyber attack is to show the power of South Koreans and Asians against the West 's sense of superiority and ignorance of South Korea 's history .
Another group said they will launch an association next Monday of around 100 dog meat restaurant owners in the Seoul region and hold a seminar to promote the dish .
Food scientist at Chung Chong College an Yong - geun said he would introduce some 350 different kinds of culinary art with dog meat .
French actress - turned activist Brigitte Bardot and other animal rights campaigners call to stop the South Korean practice of eating dogs .
FIFA president Sepp Blatter sent a letter last November to South Korea 's World Cup organizing committee calling for immediate and decisive measures against cruelty to dogs .
It was ahead of the World Cup which starts May 31 , 2002 .
Head of the Korean Football Association and a FIFA vice president Chung Mong - Joon said FIFA should not intervene in the eating habits of a sovereign nation .
South Korean officials said most dogs used for eating were killed instantly by electrocution .
Activists contend many slaughterhouses in the countryside are not controlled .
They strangle dogs , hang them by a rope and beat them in line with traditional practice to make the meat more tender .
Dog restaurants were told to close or go into the backstreets when Seoul hosted the 1988 Olympics .
No similar move is planned for the World Cup .
The authorities say the practice is slowly disappearing in Korea .
A recent survey stated that about one million dogs are sold every year for food in South Korea and 92 percent of men aged 20 and above and 68 percent of adult women have tasted dog meat .
2002-01-15
Pakistan ( PK ) ; India ( IN )
International ; Government ; terrorism ; war and conflict ; dissent ; leader
Religious extremism continues in Pakistan despite the banning of militant groups .
Religious extremism continues in Pakistan despite the banning of militant groups by the Pakistani Government .
Newspapers and magazines extolling the virtues of Islamic holy war in Kashmir continue to fill the newstands in Pakistan despite the Pakistani military Government 's attempt at a large scale containment of religious extremism .
Around 1400 alleged religious extremists have been arrested since 020112 under severe actions against Islamic militants and sectarian radicals announced by President Pervez Musharraf during the weekend .
The severe actions against militants and radicals came as Pervez Musharraf banned 5 Islamic groups .
The banned 5 Islamic groups included the 2 hardline militant groups fighting Indian rule in Kashmir which the Indian government accuses of staging the violent 011213 attack on the Indian parliament .
Pakistani authorities have stated that no statements or literature from the 5 banned Islamic groups would be tolerated after Pervez Musharraf 's speech banning the 5 Islamic groups .
Pervez Musharraf 's speech banning the 5 Islamic groups was applauded by the United States .
Iftikhar Ahmed stated that under the notification that was issued late at night on 020114 all publications , newspapers , weekly magazines , monthlies , etc of the 5 banned Islamic groups are banned and confiscated .
Iftikhar Ahmed is a Pakistani interior ministry official .
Iftikhar Ahmed stated that Pakistan 's provincial governments have been asked to implement the orders in the notification that was issued on 020114 and that Pakistan 's provincial governments are in the process of taking action .
Karachi police chief Tariq Jamil stated that the 5 banned Islamic groups would not be allowed to operate in any way .
Tariq Jamil stated that he would examine if the baned literature is still available in the market despite the ban .
The 2 hardline militant groups fighting Indian rule in Kashmir are the Lashkar - e - Taiba and Jaish - e - Mohammad .
The Lashkar - e - Taiba and Jaish - e - Mohammad are still distributing their message through a range of publications and magazines easily available in Karachi .
Other groups linked to terrorism and included on the United States Terrorist Exclusion List are also publishing regular newspapers and journals containing rhetoric that is against Western countries and calls for war in the name of Islam .
Qari Mohammad Zafar stated that his elders urged him to read about Jihad through the Islam daily published by the Al-Rashid Trust and Lashkar - i - Taiba 's zarb - e - Taiba weekly .
Qari Mohammad Zafar is an 18 - year - old student of a religious seminary .
Qari Mohammad Zafar stated that he did not know whether the Pakistani government will also ban the publications encouraging Jihad .
Qari Mohammad Zafar stated that himself and other people have been told by our elders to read pro - Jihad newspapers and magazines .
The al-Rashid Trust and Lashkar - i - Taiba are on the United States Terrorist Exclusion List and the Al-Rashid Trust 's and Lashkar - i - Taiba 's assets frozen in Pakistan .
The Al-Rashid Trust has not been officially banned in Pakistan .
The primary editorial in The Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust on 020115 carried a warning to the Pakistani government .
The Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust supports the Taliban Fund linked to Osama bin Laden 's al-Qaeda network .
The headline in the Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust on 020115 stated action extreme against extremism above an article stating that the Pakistani government should not domineer a large section of Pakistani society which supported the jihad against Indian rule in the divided Himalayan state of Kashmir .
Newspaper seller Mohammad Farooq stated that Pervez Musharraf 's clamp - down on extremism had done little to limit the demand for banned religious extremist publications .
Mohammad Farooq stated that the publication of the Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust has not been affected yet by Pervez Musharraf 's clamp - down on extremism and the circulation of the Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust has increased in the past couple of days .
Over 12 publications including dailies , weeklies and monthlies of various extremist groups including those banned on 020112 still sell in large numbers in the markets and bazaars of Karachi .
Police officer Mohammad Iqbal stated that the police so far have not received any instructions to take action against any banned religious extremist publications .
Analysts stated that the Pakistani government may have trouble explaining the Pakistani government 's reasoning if the banned religious extremist groups ' publications are suddenly removed from the newsstands because the Pakistani Government generally supports the freedom of the press .
A reporter who did not want to be named from the publication of the Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust stated that it would not be easy for the Pakistani government to ban the religious extremist publications and make over 500 employees jobless .
2002-01-17
Iran ( IR )
Narcotics ; military
Thirteen drug traffickers were killed and 10 arrested in Iran anti - drug sweeps .
The Iranian army launched a huge sweep against traffickers along the borders with Afghanistan and Pakistan .
On January 17 , 2002 a state radio reported that thirteen drug traffickers were killed and 10 arrested in Iran anti - drug sweeps .
The Iranian army launched a huge sweep against traffickers along the borders with Afghanistan and Pakistan .
The radio said the first day of Val Fajr accumulated more than four tons of drugs and 50 guns in southeast Iran on January 16 , 2002 .
Val Fajr means swear to victory in Arabic and is a phrase from the Koran .
In December 2002 police announced than an armed corps with Afghanistan , Pakistan and Turkmenistan was being assembled specifically to combat drug trafficking along Iran 's borders .
Iran is a major transit point between drug producers in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the markets of Europe and the Gulf .
Parliament approved plans in May 2001 to build an anti - drugs wall along the 925 - kilometre ( 560 - mile ) border with Afghanistan .
A budget was allocated for the barrier to be equipped with electronic detention equipment .
An Afghan television reported on January 16 , 2002 that Afghanistan 's interim administration has banned the cultivation of opium poppies in a bid to end drug trafficking .
In July 2000 the Taliban militia also banned production of opium .
Opium is the raw ingredient for heroin .
The ban was strictly enforced with opium production decreasing from 3,200 tons to 185 tons .
Afghan farmers resumed growing opium poppies after the militia was overthrown in December 2001 .
Iranian law states the death penalty for drug trafficking .
More than 3,000 policemen have been killed in anti - drugs raids in the past 20 years .
2002-01-23
Iran ( IR ) ; Afghanistan ( AF ) ; Pakistan ( PK )
Narcotics ; military
Iranian army arrests 1600 drug traffickers , kills 21 , and seizes 6 tons of drugs and weapons in large - scale operation along its borders with Afghanistan and Pakistan .
The Government has banned cultivation of opium poppies and plans to build a wall along its border in an attempt to end drug trafficking .
Iran 's state news agency IRNA reported 23 January 2002 that Iranian security forces killed 21 drug traffickers and arrested more than 1600 in operations in the east and south of Iran in recent days .
IRNA stated that in the large - scale army operation along the eastern borders with Afghanistan and Pakistan 21 drug traffickers were killed , 1500 arrested and approximately 5 tons of drugs seized .
IRNA stated that the 10 - day - old operation would continue until all the traffickers were killed or arrested .
In a separate dispatch IRNA stated that during the past 20 days in southern Iran 's Fars Province police had arrested 107 drug traffickers including 11 foreign nationals .
The nationalities of the foreigners were not mentioned .
IRNA stated that approximately 1 ton of various drugs including hashish as well as fire arms were seized .
Iran is a major transit point between drug producers in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the markets of Europe and the Gulf .
In May 2001 the Iranian parliament approved plans to build a wall equipped with electronic detection devices along the 560 - mile border with Afghanistan to deter drug trafficking .
Last week Afghan Television reported that Afghanistan 's interim administration has banned cultivation of opium poppies in an attempt to end drug trafficking .
Opium is the raw ingredient for heroin .
The now - ousted Taliban militia in July 2000 also banned production of opium .
The ban was strictly enforced and resulted in a decrease in opium production from 3200 tons to 185 tons .
Desperate Afghan farmers resumed growing opium poppies soon after the hard - line militia lost power in December 2001 .
Iranian law applies the death penalty for drug trafficking .
In the past 20 years more than 3000 police officers have been killed in anti - drug raids .
2001-12-20
Canada ( CA )
International ; terrorism
Canadian government 's warning of al-Qaeda 's capability to launch a cyberattack causes various industries to review their preparedness .
Critical infrastructures including energy and transportation providers cite close work with Government to remain aware of threats and to update accordingly .
A recent government warning that al-Qaeda terrorists could launch a cyberattack on Canadian interests or critical infrastructure has caused many concerned industries to review their security systems .
Vice President of Canadian electricity Association Francis Bradley stated that the company has a warning system for both physical and cyberattacks .
Bradley stated that the company has been significantly focused on prevention of cyberattacks .
In a recent interview Bradley stated that many utility firms perform a brief review of their multi - tiered response systems after such warnings are issued .
The warning from the Canadian Department of National Defense 's office of critical infrastructure protection and emergency service was quietly released on 20 December 2001 and cited no specific threat .
Director of threat analysis at the Canadian Department of National Defense 's office of critical infrastructure protection and emergency service Brenda hensler - Hobbs stated that following the attacks of 11 September 2001 the Canadian Government specifically examined the potential cyber - capability of al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden 's followers .
Hensler - Hobbs stated that the Canadian government has no knowledge of Al-Qaeda having engaged in cyberattacks in the past but that leader bin Laden has suggested that if he chose to launch cyberattacks he could have the means available to him .
In summary of the recent warning stating that such an attack could be executed in the very near future hensler - Hobbs stated that bin Laden 's location was irrelevant because bin Laden possesses the money and supporters necessary to have such an attack executed by others .
A number of al-Qaeda militants including Millennium plot bomber Ahmed Ressam are known to have remained in Canada .
Many are located in Montreal .
Hensler - Hobbs stated that the proliferation and availability of Hacker tools and the low skill level needed to conduct cyberattacks demonstrate the ease of launching an attack anywhere .
Hensler - Hobbs cited the example of the Montreal - based Hacker known as mafiaboy who attacked U.S. websites including Amazon.com in 2000 .
Many think that security must be improved at North American critical infrastructures including energy and transportation providers and the financial services sector that are largely interconnected .
Many businesses began preparing for cyber incidents before the year 2000 .
A separate report issued recently by the U.S. government - funded research group computer science and telecommunications Board stated that cyber security needs considerable improvement .
For example , according to a Canadian government estimate the love bug launched in May 2000 caused 6.7 billion U.S. dollars in damage and disrupted Canadian government systems .
Bell Canada spokesman Andrew Cole stated that Bell Canada is prepared and remains prepared for various potential situations and scenarios .
Cole stated --
Bell Canada works very closely with the Government and the private sector to be aware of security concerns and to update accordingly .
Bell Canada worked closely with U.S. officials and firms after the attacks of 11 September 2001 .
Bell Canada provides a total of 26 million phone and Internet connections to a nation of 30 million people .
Bradley stated --
Electricity firms have strong warning systems that are coordinated by the North American Electric reliability Council .
There has not been a cyber event that has resulted in a loss of power for utility customers .
There is little possibility that a cyberattack would disable a North American electric grid .
Electric companies are well prepared and are making all preparations required to be ready for any physical or cyberattack .
The North American Electric reliability Council 's 30 largest utility companies went on their highest alert on September 11 and many still have an increased security presence in effect and plan to extend it further .
2002-01-26
Russia ( RU )
International ; space ; energy
Russia 's military authorities criticized Kamchatenergo Power Company for imposing a shutdown on supplies to a command center that guides military satellites in orbit and contributes to systems controlling the international space station .
The Kamchatenergo company disconnected a major control center of the Russian space forces located in Kamchatka early Saturday , the Russian Space Forces press service said .
Kamchatenergo feeds power to the vast Kamchatka peninsula in Russia 's far east .
A statement from the Russian Space Forces press services on 020126 called the action a direct violation of government decrees on defense facilities and stated that it could have led to the loss of a spacecraft costing hundreds of millions of rubles .
The monitoring center is a key element in maintaining Russia 's satellite network in orbit and plays a part in operations of the international space platform Alfa .
Officials at the command center took urgent measures to use reserve power units to keep the system functioning and to temporarily provide residential centers with electricity .
Several other military bases and strategic defense units were affected .
The State power monopoly United energy services and its regional subsidiary Kamchatenergo launched a program of power cuts to long - term debtors on 020125 .
United energy services argues that non - payment of bills has prevented it from maintaining supplies .
The Russian Space Forces , the space branch of Russia 's armed forces , expressed alarm at the prospect of further power cuts resulting from delays in Federal budget resources reaching local authorities on time .
2002-01-28
Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; space ; energy
Russian space officials warn that power cuts against the military for non - payment of bills , like the one at a command center in the Far East Kamchatka Peninsula of the Russian Space Forces , could have catastrophic consequences .
28 January 2002 -- Russian space officials warned that power cuts against the military for non - payment of bills could have catastrophic consequences .
Russian space agency spokesman Sergei Gorbunov announced --
A weekend black - out at a command center in the Far East Kamchatka Peninsula of the Russian space forces had not affected the international space station ( ISS ) .
The Kamchatka Command Center maintains Russia 's satellite network in orbit .
The Kamchatka command center plays a role in ISS operations .
cutting power to command centers could pose dangers for Russian space installations .
Power cuts could lead to a failure of all work with space craft .
The ISS could function for an orbit or two without ground control by using standby systems .
A total unexpected loss of power during control of military equipment could be catastrophic .
The Government or UES or the Ministry of Defense must resolve the issue .
The Kamchatenergo company feeds power to Kamchatka Peninsula .
On 26 January 2002 Kamchatenergo disconnected the Russian Space Forces center for most of the day .
Kamchatenergo is 1 of several regional subsidiaries of State power monopoly United energy services ( UES ) .
On 25 January 2002 UES cut power to long - term debtors .
Kamchatenergo stated that non - payment of bills prevent it from maintaining power supplies .
The ISS --
consists of 16 nations
is hailed as an example of international cooperation in space
has been largely built by Russia .
Russia provided several ISS modules including Zvezda and Zarya
Several other military bases including some strategic defense units were affected by the power outage .
Russian space forces is the space branch of Russia 's armed forces .
ISS module unity was built by the US .
2002-02-01
Australia ( AU )
Narcotics ; crime ; international
An Australian jury found that an Uzbekistan Olympic boxing official was defamed in a book about alleged Olympic corruption in which he was depicted as a major international heroin dealer and racketeer .
A New South Wales Supreme Court jury took just over 2 hours on 020201 to find Gafur Rakhimov had been libelled in a book the Great Olympic swindle which alleges Olympic corruption .
Gafur Rakhimov is an Uzbekistan Olympic boxing official and was depicted in the book as a major international heroin dealer and racketeer .
The Great Olympic swindle was written by British journalist Andrew Jennings and published by Simon and Schuster .
The Rakhimov case will now go to a single judge to hear defences and decide any damages to be awarded to Rakhimov .
The Great Olympic swindle implied that Gafur Rakhimov had been engaged in fraud , prostitution , assassination , gun running and plutonium smuggling .
The book also implied that the businessman was a gangster in the Soviet black economy and had traded sporting medals for bribes .
Rakhimov was Vice - President of the Olympic Council of Asia and an Executive Member of the International Amateur Boxing Association .
Rakhimov was also said to have bribed members of the International Amateur Boxing Federation in the vote for the Federation Presidency .
Jennings is a long - time critic of the International Olympic Committee .
The 020201 verdict followed 2 defamation actions brought last year by Rakhimov against the Australian Broadcasting Corporation ( ABC ) and Jennings and against the Sydney Morning Herald ( SMH ) and Jennings .
A jury found in the case involving the ABC that ABC 's flagship current affairs program four corners had implied Rakhimov knew some of the world 's most dangerous criminals and was suspected by the FBI of drug trafficking .
That Panel found those insinuations were not defamatory and threw out the case against the ABC and Jennings .
The SMH and Jennings were then sued over 3 articles published in the lead - up to the 000000 Olympics .
The jury in that case found Rakhimov had been painted as a major international criminal and had been defamed .
2002-02-10
Tajikistan ( TJ ) ; Uzbekistan ( UZ ) ; Afghanistan ( AF ) ; Kyrgyzstan ( KG ) ; Kazakhstan ( KZ ) ; Turkmenistan ( TM )
International ; narcotics ; terrorism ; politics
OSCE urges permanent end to Afghan terrorism and drug - trafficking to create long - term stability in Central Asia .
Expert states that cultivation of opium and drug trafficking are deeply entrenched in Afghanistan and will be impossible to eradicate .
On 10 February 2002 an official with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe was quoted as stating that long - term stability in Central Asia depends on eradicating post - Taliban Afghan terrorism and drug - trafficking .
The OSCE envoy in neighboring Tajikistan Marc Gilbert stated to the government weekly national gazette that there are now hopes that Afghanistan will develop its democratic institutions and end terrorism and drug - smuggling resulting in greater stability in Central Asia .
Gilbert stated that the post - Soviet republics in central Asia fought terrorism by giving material and other necessary help to the international anti - terrorist coalition in the war against Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden and the Taliban regime .
Both Tajikistan and Uzbekistan share a border with Afghanistan and have experienced raids by Taliban - backed Islamic militants in recent years .
Neighboring Kyrgyzstan has also experienced raids by Taliban - backed Islamic militants in recent years .
Kazakhstan also became a key U.S. partner in the Afghan war opening its airspace to military overflights .
Turkmenistan maintained a more neutral stance .
Turkmenistan borders Afghanistan .
Gilbert stated that Tajikistan 's positive and responsible approach to the crisis in Afghanistan has significantly improved the country 's image internationally .
Tajik government expert and head of the Tajik Drug Control Agency Vladimir Rakhmonov stated on 10 February 2002 that the U.S. - led war in Afghanistan had failed to stop drug trafficking across the border into Tajikistan .
Rakhmonov stated to Interfax --
Opium and heroin are a form of hard - currency reserve for Afghanistan .
Drug trafficking from Afghanistan has been concealed so securely that it will be impossible to uncover .
Drug trafficking from Afghanistan resumed during a brief hiatus in the anti - terrorist operation .
In 2001 Tajik law - enforcement agencies and Russian border guards seized 8.8 tons of drugs including 4.2 tons of heroin .
This represented a 26 percent increase overall in 2001 with 3 times the amount of heroin .
Suggestions that there are no longer drug lords in Afghanistan and that drug traffic into Tajikistan has been eradicated are unrealistic and false .
Many years would be needed to convert Afghanistan 's agriculture historically specialized in the growing of raw opium .
Cultivation of raw opium provided the only source of income for much of the rural population .
Tajikistan 's 780 - mile border with Afghanistan is patrolled by approximately 11000 Russian soldiers under a 1992 agreement between the Russian and Tajik Governments .
2002-03-01
Afghanistan ( AF ) ; Russian Federation ( RU )
International ; narcotics ; terrorism
Afghan officials conducted talks with Russian officials asking for assistance in stopping Afghanistan 's large illegal opium and heroin trade .
Afghanistan seeks to end poppy harvesting and increase border control .
March 1 , 2002 interim interior minister of Afghanistan Yunus Qanooni asked Russian officials to assist in combating the drugs trade and establishing security in Afghanistan .
Qanooni is a member of the Northern Alliance .
Qanooni told Russian Deputy Minister for Emergency Situations Yury Vorobyov --
Unfortunately over the past six years , the rule of the Taliban turned Afghanistan into a center of terrorism and drugs .
The struggle against terrorism and against drugs , and the establishment of security is a priority for the Administration of Afghanistan .
But combating terrorism and drugs requires joint efforts .
Peace and stability in Afghanistan is not only in the interests of the Afghani people and nation but of all the countries in the region .
Afghanistan 's interim government stated that it would take firm measures very quickly to prevent the harvest of poppy in the wake of the Taliban regime 's fall late last year .
Leader of Afghanistan 's interim government Hamid Karzai said the fight against poppy harvesting and the lucrative trafficking of opium and heroin will be a top priority .
The anti - drug effort is strongly supported by Western countries , whose populations are a major market for heroin and opium from Afghanistan .
February 28 , 2002 Kabul officials announced that Afghan police are creating their first anti - narcotics units with the help of the United Nations due to concern that the country could again become a major producer of opium .
February 28 , 2002 Qanooni stated in talks with Russian Interior Minister Boris Gryzlov that Afghanistan 's main task is to prevent future drugs production .
Qanooni outlined a three - stage plan of action --
Afghan authorities will seek to ban poppy harvesting .
Afghan authorities will strengthen the borders around Afghanistan .
Afghan authorities will cooperate with the security forces of neighboring states .
Afghanistan is thought to be responsible for 75 percent of the world 's opium and 80 percent of the heroin traded illegally in Europe .
Approximately 11000 Russian guards patrol the 1200 - kilometre ( 750 - mile ) border between Russia and Afghanistan under a 1992 agreement signed by Moscow and Dushanbe .
The Northern Alliance opposes the Taliban but tolerated the harvest of poppy in territory it controlled .
Afghanistan 's interim government has been in power for 2 months .
2002-03-04
Korea , Republic of ( KR ) ; United States ( US )
International ; Government ; military
South Korea 's defense ministry under attack in parliament over allegations it is favoring U.S. company Boeing for multi - billion - dollar fighter project .
Newspaper reports reveal that French - made plane was rated higher in air force evaluations and that the Government is instead responding to political pressure from the U.S. and Boeing .
South Korea 's Defense Ministry came under attack in Parliament on 04 March 2002 over allegations that it is favoring U.S. company Boeing for a multi - billion - dollar fighter project .
Ruling and opposition lawmakers criticized the Ministry as newspapers reported that the French - made fighter Rafale had scored the highest marks of any of the 4 contenders in field tests performed by South Korean Air Force evaluators .
The 3.2 billion U.S. dollar project to buy 40 fighters will be one of the most important international military contracts awarded this year but it has encountered multiple obstacles .
Award of the contract was temporarily suspended in February 2002 after the prices offered by 4 bidders were judged too high .
South Korea 's defense ministry promised to conclude its first - stage appraisal by the end of March 2002 .
There has also been much newspaper speculation that the South Korean government might yield to U.S. pressure to buy Boeing 's aged F - 15 k.
Speculation grew in February 2002 when Defense Minister Kim Dong - Shin stressed that South Korea should consider security ties with the United States in the project .
The other competing planes are the Dassault firm 's Rafale , the Eurofighter Consortium 's typhoon 2000 and the Russian Su - 32 made by Sukhoi .
Dassault is seeking its first foreign order for the Rafale .
Kang Chang - Sung of the opposition Grand National Party expressed doubt of the fairness of the evaluation methods stating that his party suspects that the Defense Ministry has political reasons to select the F - 15 k.
The ruling Millennium Democratic Party also accused the Ministry of favoring the F - 15 k despite the defense chief 's insistence that there was no favoritism toward Boeing .
Kim stated --
There has been no pressure from the United States .
There would be an investigation into how classified documents had been leaked .
The Defense Ministry was further pressured by numerous newspaper reports of the Air Force 's evaluation of the Rafale as excellent in all categories .
Newspapers stated that the F - 15 k was rated excellent in reliability and support combat capability but met only 30 percent of core technology requirements .
Newspapers stated that the Eurofighter was rated excellent in general function and reliability categories but the Rafale also earned the excellent rating for its weapons and electronic warfare capability .
The Su - 35 placed fourth with ratings of ordinary in all five categories .
Rafale reportedly offered more generous terms for technology transfer and subcontracts for South Korea 's aerospace industry .
The Ministry stated that the air force was just 1 of 4 evaluations .
Some analysts have stated that the study method is biased toward Boeing noting that the evaluation was revised in February 2002 to ensure that all 4 bidders would receive an automatic 60 points for technology transfer .
The English - language Korea Herald newspaper stated that this revision gives an advantage to Boeing which has been reluctant to transfer core technology .
The Korea Herald stated that when evaluators were conducting their first - stage reports the ministry ordered them to give each bidder grades within a range of 60 to 100 points instead of 0 to 100 points .
The Korea Herald stated that critics say Boeing would benefit most from the points minimum because it would gain fewer points than Dassault in terms of technology transfer and subcontracts .
2002-03-29
Korea , Republic of ( KR )
proliferation ; international ; politics
A senior South Korean minister on Friday warned that there could be a new crisis this year over inspections of the rival North 's nuclear program .
Senior South Korean minister Jeong Se - hyun on 020329 warned that tensions could rise because North Korea wants inspections of its nuclear facilities delayed .
Unification Minister Jeong is the South Korean government 's chief policymaker for relations with North Korea .
Jeong said in a lecture on South Korea and US relations with North Korea that there was some talk in the United States that the nuclear inspection in North Korea should be carried out in 020800 .
North Korea 's suggestion is that the inspection should be delayed until 050000 .
Jeong said that a crisis could come in 020800 on the Korean peninsula if this issue becomes an international point of contention .
Following Jeong 's comments another senior government official sought to play down Jeong 's remarks about the looming troubles .
The unnamed official told the Yonhap national news agency that talk of pressing for IAEA inspections in 020800 had come only from private researchers in the United States .
The official said it was speculation that the North Korean government thinks the inspections should be delayed until 050000 .
Top South Korean envoy Lim Won - dong intends to raise international concerns about the North 's nuclear and missile programs when he goes to Pyongyang 020403 .
Lim is a special advisor to President Kim Dae - jung on national security and foreign affairs .
Lim has also warned of a looming nuclear crisis on the Korean Peninsula .
Military officials said Lim intimated the problems could be as serious as a 940000 nuclear standoff over North Korea 's suspected nuclear weapons development that came close to conflict .
The North Korean government agreed to freeze the North Korean nuclear program under an accord with a US - led international consortium .
The consortium is to build 2 light water nuclear reactors that produce less weapons grade fuel than North Korea 's old graphite reactors and provide substitute fuel until they are built .
The original 030000 target date for completion has been put back at least 5 years because of major political and construction delays .
The 940000 Accord stipulated that the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) must be allowed to inspect North Korea 's old facilities to see if plutonium has been processed before the core facilities of the new reactors are installed .
2002-04-04
India ( IN )
International ; military ; business
India 's Hindustan Aeronautics Limited plans to manufacture and maintain 140 Sukhoi 30 fighter jets for the Indian government .
India 's State - owned banglalore - based Hindustan Aeronautics Limited Chairman N. R. Mohanty stated that the Indian government has decided that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will manufacture and maintain 140 Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jets .
N. R. Mohanty stated that an agreement had been signed between the Defense Research and Development Organisation , Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and the Indian Air Force to upgrade India 's ageing fleet of MiG - 27 m aircraft .
N. R. Mohanty stated that the upgrade will be done soon as it has almost been finalised by the Defense Research and Development Organisation , Hindustan Aeronautics Limited and the Indian Air Force .
N. R. Mohanty stated that initially 40 aircraft will be upgraded .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will receive 100 percent technology transfer to make the Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jet .
N. R. Mohanty stated that this technology transfer is good because when an aircraft is sold at a cheap rate you end up paying more when you start maintaining the aircraft and requesting spare aircraft .
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited plans to begin making the Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jet in 030000 and the first aircraft will be handed over to the Indian Air Force by 040000 .
N. R. Mohanty stated that the manufacture of all the 140 Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jets will be completed by 170000 .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will also manufacture the 920 engines for the Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jets .
The initial investment will be 650 million United States dollars .
150 million United States dollars of the initial investment will be earmarked for capital investment .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited will fund the initial investment from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited 's own resources and the 500 million United States dollars needed for tooling , other equipment and technical assistance will be raised when Hindustan Aeronautics Limited needs it .
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has paid a licence fee of 286 million United States dollars to Russia to be able to make the Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jets .
N. R. Mohanty stated that the Indian government was also planning to purchase 50 Sukhoi 30 MK fighter jets from Russia at a cost of 30 million United States dollars each .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited 's indigenous aircraft will cost slightly less or be almost equal to 30 million United States dollars each .
An earlier 340 million United States dollar plan to upgrade India 's MiG - 21 fighter jets was delayed by more than 5 years .
Russian officials blamed the Indian Government 's intransigence for the delay .
The 960000 Russian Indian upgrade deal was meant to be completed within 2 years but the first 2 upgraded MiG - 21-93 jets were not delivered to India until 000000 .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited 's 010000 target was to deliver 16 MiG - 21 upgrades but Hindustan Aeronautics Limited was only able to deliver 6 .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited had many problems with the French and Russian companies and that this year Hindustan Aeronautics Limited is planning a minimum of 24 upgrades .
N. R. Mohanty stated that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited had submitted a proposal to the Indian government for the development of a light attack helicopter and the first flight of India 's intermediate jet trainer hjt - 36 was planned for 020000 .
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited stated on 020404 that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited made a net profit of 62 million United States dollars on a sales turnover of 27.3 billion rupees year - on - year for the fiscal year to 020300 .
2002-04-07
Japan ( JP ) ; China ( CN )
International ; politics ; Government ; weapons
Japanese opposition Liberal Party chief Ichiro Ozawa announced that Japan is able to arm itself with nuclear weapons overnight if China proceeds with excessive military build - up .
7 April 2002 -- Japanese opposition Liberal Party chief Ichiro Ozawa has announced that Japan is able to arm itself with nuclear weapons overnight .
Japan will arm itself with nuclear weapons if China proceeds with excessive military expansion .
Ozawa discussed Japan 's nuclear weapons during a meeting with a Chinese community party intelligence division official .
Ozawa 's warning could provoke strong reaction from China and Asia .
Asia is on alert to signs of Japan 's military revival .
6 April 2002 -- in a lecture in the provincial city of Fukuoka Ozawa stated --
China is expanding its military power to attempt to join the ranks of the superpowers .
China is trying to become a military Power like the US .
That Ozawa told an unnamed Chinese visitor that if China expands its military power Japanese people will get hysterical .
Japan can easily produce nuclear warheads .
Japan can produce thousands of nuclear warheads overnight .
Japan may have enough plutonium at nuclear power plants for 3000 or 4000 rounds .
If Japan rises to the occasion Japan will never be beaten even in terms of military power .
Ozawa wants a fully democratic China and a society in which China and Japan can coexist .
The introduction of democracy to China is essential to world peace .
A breakdown of order in China will lead to significant global turmoil .
A breakdown of order in China will be worse than in Afghanistan or Yugoslavia .
Japanese newspapers expressed concern about the repercussions of Ozawa 's remarks .
Conservative daily newspaper Sankei Shimbun stated that Ozawa 's nuclear armament threats are an attempt to subdue China .
Sankei Shimbun stated that Ozawa 's remarks are likely to cause contention in Japan and abroad .
Influential daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun anticipates a backlash from the Chinese government and others .
Ozawa is a renowned advocate of a strong armed forces .
Ozawa is a conservative .
Ozawa is a former secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party .
2002-04-08
Japan ( JP )
proliferation ; politics
The Japanese Government stated on April 8 , 2002 its policy of holding no nuclear warheads .
This was after a senior lawmaker said Japan can arm itself with nuclear weapons overnight .
The Japanese Government stated on April 8 , 2002 its policy of holding no nuclear warheads .
This was after a senior lawmaker said Japan can arm itself with nuclear weapons overnight .
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuo Fukuda told a press conference that it has been Japan 's policy since World War II to not hold any nuclear weapons .
Fukuda said that there will be no changes in Japan adherence to the policy and that Japan wishes all nuclear weapons would disappear from the world .
A speech by opposition Liberal Party chief Ichiro Ozawa told a Chinese intelligence official that Japanese people will get hysterical if China continued to build its military strength .
Ozawa said it would be easy for Japan to produce nuclear warheads and that Japan can produce thousands of nuclear warheads overnight .
Ozawa stated that Japan could have enough plutonium at nuclear power plants for 3000 or 4000 rounds .
Ozawa is a renowned advocate of strong armed forces .
Ozawa said that if Japan rises to the occasion then Japan will never be beaten even in terms of military power .
Ozawa wanted a fully democratic China and an environment in which China and Japan can co - exist .
Greenpeace International said Ozawa 's comment confirmed the threat posed by Japan 's massive plutonium program .
Shaun Bernie of Greenpeace International said Ozawa is right to state the potential of Japan to use its so - called peaceful plutonium program for nuclear weapons purposes .
Bernie said Ozawa has exposed the myths of Japan being a peaceful energy program for a resource poor country .
Bernie said Ozawa 's statement may actually serve an important role in forcing the scale of Japan 's plutonium program and the threat of confrontation in northeast Asia on to the international agenda .
2002-04-08
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Brazil ( BR )
International ; weapons ; space
Brazilian Defense Minister in Moscow for cooperation talks with government officials and leading members of Russia 's military - industrial complex .
Emphasized in the discussion is arms sales and extended cooperation in the space sector .
Brazilian embassy officials stated that on 8 April 2002 Brazilian Defense Minister Geraldo da Cruz Quintao began a week - long series of meetings in Moscow with Russian officials during which he is to meet Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov .
Quintao met head of the Arms Export Company Rosoboronexport Andrei Belyaninov .
A spokesman for Rosoboronexport was quoted by the Interfax news agency as stating that Quintao met Belyaninov to discuss cooperation in various areas in addition to the preparation of specific contracts for Russian arms sales to Brazil .
The spokesman for Rosoboronexport stated that the discussed cooperation was marked by an emphasis on the space sector .
The Brazilian embassy stated that Quintao is also to meet leading members of Russia 's military - industrial complex .
After meeting Ivanov on 9 April 2002 Quintao will travel to Saint Petersburg where he will spend the rest of the week .
During a visit in January 2002 by Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso and a delegation of 70 people the Russian government stated that it anticipated sales of its Su - 27 and MiG - 29 fighters to Brazil along with S - 300 anti - missile batteries .
Brazil is known to be interested in extending its cooperation with Russia in the space sector and has offered Russia the use of a platform in the north of the country for satellite launches .
2002-04-08
United Kingdom ( GB )
International ; Government ; weapons ; media ; technology ; terrorism ; proliferation
Declassified British Ministry of Defense documents explain how Britain made its first nuclear bomb .
Critics state that with access to plutonium available from rogue States terrorists could consult the detailed documents and build an atomic bomb .
The Daily Telegraph reported on 08 April 2002 that declassified British Ministry of Defense documents explain how to make an atomic bomb .
The Daily Telegraph reports that the documents became public domain over the past 5 years .
The declassified documents are available to the public and could therefore be consulted by terrorists .
The Daily Telegraph reports that the documents give details of the manufacture of Britain 's first nuclear bomb at the end of the 1940s and start of the 1950s .
The declassified documents provide a list of the ingredients for such a weapon including the amount of plutonium necessary and how to spark off a chain reaction .
Britain 's first nuclear bomb was called Blue Danube .
Former engineer who worked on Britain 's military nuclear program Brian Burnell stated that the instructions could enable a terrorist to construct a rudimentary atomic bomb .
The Telegraph reported that the principle challenge would be obtaining the necessary plutonium but that several outlaw states like Iraq might possess plutonium .
Terror organizations like al-Qaeda have tried to obtain plutonium .
Burnell was quoted as stating that the documents should never have been declassified and after the events of 11 September 2001 there is a case for removing them from public access .
The Telegraph stated that opposition Conservative Party defense spokesman Bernard Jenkin immediately called for explanations from the Labour government calling the documents a monstrous free gift to terrorists .
2002-04-16
Tajikistan ( TJ ) ; Afghanistan ( AF )
International ; narcotics
The number of heroin addicts in Tajikistan has vastly increased over the past five years due to drug trafficking between Afghanistan and Russia and Europe .
The number of heroin addicts in Tajikistan has vastly increased over the past five years due to drug trafficking between Afghanistan and Europe .
The majority of the heroin is grown in neighboring Afghanistan .
Afghanistan is the world 's top opium producer .
Tajikistan shares a 1300 - kilometer ( 800 - mile ) border with Afghanistan and has become a transit point for heroin being trafficked into Russia and Europe .
In 2001 the Russian army and Tajik police confiscated nearly 9 tons of drugs and arrested more than 2000 people .
The Russian army guards Tajikistan 's border with Afghanistan .
The majority of Tajikistan 's heroin addicts live in cities and are aged between 18 and 25 .
75 percent of Tajikistan 's population lives in rural areas , where heroin addicts are frequently ostracized .
Head of a public drug clinic in Dushanbe , Tajikistan Andrei Onishchenko , stated --
There are 5000 heroin addicts officially registered in Tajikistan , compared with 57 in 1997 .
The actual figure is seven times greater than the official number .
The low cost and availability of heroin are among the causes of the addiction problem .
One dose of heroin costs less than a dollar in Tajikistan , which is less than the price of a bottle of the local vodka .
an addict who has been using heroin for 2 years needs to use 3 grams of heroin every 24 hours .
3 grams of heroin costs 70 somonis or 30 dollars .
an addict is willing to commit any crime to pay for heroin .
Afghan heroin is the strongest in the world because it is made from poppies cultivated at high altitudes and therefore subjected to high doses of ultra - violet light .
A person who takes a daily dose of Afghan heroin has a life expectancy of between 5 and 7 years and many commit suicide before that .
The Tajik State pays 25 dirams ( a few cents ) per day for every person in the rehabilitation clinics .
The percentage of relapses is very high due to the lack of followup treatment and unemployment among young people .
Head of a Tajik government agency that fights drug trafficking Avaz yuldachev stated that heroin users are ill and need treatment .
Anvar , a 14 - year - old boy from Dushanbe , used heroin for three years before being hospitalized in Onishchenko 's drug clinic .
Anvar said --
He sniffed a white substance he found in his backyard and was unable to stop .
He stopped going to school .
He stole from the local market to get money for more heroin .
Drug traffickers face the death penalty under Tajik law .
Tajikistan has 6.2 million inhabitants .
2002-04-22
Thailand ( TH )
International ; economy ; business
Southeast Asian nations are collaborating with the European Union in the European Commission - ASEAN intellectual rights cooperation program in order to strengthen intellectual property rights in Southeast Asia with the goal of strengthening business and investor confidence .
European Union officials stated on April 22 , 2002 that Southeast Asians would boost their trade and investment prospects by introducing stricter intellectual property rights .
European Union officers and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations started negotiating how to strengthen intellectual property rights .
The negotiation began with a two - day workshop in Bangkok on April 22 , 2002 .
The negotiation was organized under the new European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program .
Head of the delegation of the European Commission in Bangkok Klauspeter schmallenbach stated that the ability to comply with intellectual property rights rules would help developing nations take part in global trade .
Klauspeter schmallenbach stated intellectual property rights form one of the basic pillars upon which business and investor confidence are based .
Klauspeter schmallenbach also stated that the intellectual property rights for essential for any country 's economic development .
Klauspeter schmallenbach stated that intellectual property rights may help boost European investment in Southeast Asia to pre - crisis levels .
European patents office President Ingo Kober said that it was vital that Southeast Asian Nations introduced proper legal and technical infrastructure to defend trademarks .
Ingo Kober stated that intellectual property rights are currently developing in Southeast Asian nations .
Ingo Kober stated there is larger interest in intellectual property rights now than 20 or 30 years ago .
Ingo Kober stated that some nations had stronger intellectual property rights than others .
Ingo Kober also stated that one should not tell the countries that are lagging in intellectual property rights that they are lagging in intellectual property rights .
Director General of Thailand 's Department of intellectual property yanyong phuangranch stated that Southeast Asian nations had to work together to ensure trademarks were protected .
The European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program fosters trade , investment and technology transfer between the European Union and Southeast Asian nations .
Klauspeter schmallenbach stated that the European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program would help Southeast Asian Nations draw on European expertise in how to protect and enforce intellectual property rights in compliance with World Trade Organization rules .
50 experts in intellectual property rights attended the European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program .
Ingo Kober stated that the European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program is further proof of the growing importance of intellectual property rights protection to world trade .
Ingo Kober also stated that the European Commission - ASEAN intellectual property rights cooperation program marks the latest stage in a successful initiative to develop effective systems for protecting patents , trademarks , designs , and copyrights in the region .
2002-04-23
Republic of Korea ( KR ) ; United States ( US )
International ; military ; business
Boeing Corporation will provide 40 F - 15 k jets to the Republic of Korea and promises to meet an offset trade level of 70 percent .
Boeing Corporation promised on April 23 , 2002 to fulfill more spin - off orders for companies located in the Republic of Korea .
The purpose of this promise is to allow Boeing Corporation to win a multi - billion dollar fighter jet contract .
