The Law to permit such an action was originally approved in 1998 but 1995-2003 President Fernando Henrique Cardoso never put the policy into effect .
The United States dissuaded Cardoso from signing the decree out of concern that the accidental downing of civilian aircraft could expose the US government and companies to lawsuits .
20010400 the United States reduced previous support for operations targeting drug - running aircraft when a Peruvian jet shot down a small plane misidentified as a drug carrier and killed an American missionary and her child .
Relatives of the victims sued the US government and won a settlement due to the Government 's provision of intelligence and technical support to the operation .
A US State Department official stated --
US law may forbid assistance to countries that implement shoot - down laws under certain conditions .
The US agrees with the Brazilian assessment that the threat posed by drug traffickers is both very serious and increasing .
The US government has consulted the Brazilian Government about the provisions of US law .
Brazilian Defense Minister Jose Viegas stated that Brazil has encountered difficulties in securing US support for the plan but recent bilateral talks led to certainty that the decree would be accepted by the US government without exposing Brazil to commercial sanctions .
Brazilian officials have expressed hope that the policy will be endorsed by the US before going into effect .
The US is scheduled to provide 10.2 million dollars in drug and law enforcement aid to Brazil in 2004 .
Former air force chief and current Director of the Air Institute at estacio de sa University in Rio de Janeiro General Mauro Jose Miranda gandra stated that the measure was a courageous step by the Government but the impact may be more political than practical because of self - imposed restrictions by the Brazilian government .
Brazilian officials stated that the policy would be inapplicable against aircraft with children on board .
Viegas stated that the limitation was necessary .
Gandra stated that the provision undermines the decree 's essential purpose by granting immunity to drug - smuggling aircraft carrying children and thus introducing the possibility of kidnapped children being used as human shields .
Viegas stated in an interview in Brasilia that the government will use the law to more powerfully dissuade drug traffickers who have previously entered Brazilian airspace feeling unthreatened by the air force .
The Government was prompted to act due to the deteriorating public security situation with increasingly powerful and violent drug gangs in Sao Paolo and particularly Rio de Janeiro .
Rio de Janeiro drug gangs have more firepower than the police and have successfully attacked police stations and forced businesses and schools to close .
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva stated in a 2003 interview with foreign correspondents --
The policy is a matter of national sovereignty and security .
Some pilots of drug - running aircraft felt so confidently immune from retribution as to make obscene gestures at pursuing Brazilian air force pilots .
The constitutionality of the law has been questioned under Brazil 's prohibition of the death penalty as punishment for criminal acts .
Some legal experts and other commentators stated that contrary to government claims , the Statute amounts to a de facto execution of drug traffickers .
The daily newspaper O Estado de Sao Paolo stated in an editorial the week of 20040718-20040824 -- the extreme measure raises ethical and juridical problems exceeding any potential benefits .
The penalty will be applied extrajudicially by administrative decision of the Commander of the Air Force .
This person will gain life and death power over crew members and passengers of irregular flights .
In 2002 Brazil inaugurated the 1.4 billion dollar SIVAM radar system allowing the government to monitor air activity throughout the expansive Amazon region for the first time .
The system uses American technology .
Illegal Flights initially declined 30 percent due to trafficker 's concerns about improved tracking capabilities but subsequently reaccelerated .
Brazil recorded 4128 unauthorized flights in 2003 .
Some of these flights were innocent violations by ranchers in the Amazon flying between plantations .
Viegas stated that there was a significant increase in deliberate violations of Brazilian airspace , apparently by drug smugglers realizing that the government was incapable of retaliation .
20010400 Rio de Janeiro 's most notorious drug boss , Fernandinho Beira - Mar , was captured in Colombia in a guns - for drugs pipeline involving left - wing guerrillas .
Brazil 's northern Amazon corridor has become an increasingly busy and essential route in the global drug trade and is used for smuggling arms , gold and diamonds .
Reportedly one of the most important drug - and gun - smuggling routes in supplying Europe with cocaine runs from Colombia across the northern tier of the Amazon to Suriname .
Colombia is the only country that currently has a policy of targeting drug trafficking aircraft .
Colombia is the source of much of the cocaine and heroin sold in the United States .
2005-07-16
Venezuela ( VE )
International ; weapons ; leader ; military
The Venezuelan president 's weapons deals with Russia , curbs on military cooperation with the United States , and his plans to train as many as 2 million Venezuelan civilians to repel a possible invasion by superpowers have the US and his domestic critics worried .
Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez 's weapons deals with Russia , curbs on military cooperation with the United States , and plans to train as many as 2 million Venezuelan civilians to repel a possible invasion by imperialist superpowers have the United States and Chavez 's domestic critics worried about what the leftist former military officer is planning .
Chavez insists that the moves are purely defensive and born of an overdue need to update obsolete military hardware and protect Venezuela from nations that might want to take control of Venezuela .
Venezuela is South America 's largest petroleum - producing state .
Chavez 's domestic opponents scoff at the idea that the US would ever invade Venezuela and charge that Chavez 's true intention is to arm a huge cadre of loyal reservists who would protect Chavez against any internal uprising and to pose as a militarized counterweight to US influence in Latin America .
Cuban leader Fidel Castro is Chavez 's his major ally and Chavez is growing closer to Castro .
Chavez 's detractors in the US government say that it is even more troubling that Chavez 's arms purchases and indoctrination of civilian militias could be part of a strategy to restructure Venezuelan democracy in the image of Cuban - style militarized socialism and foment leftist revolutions throughout South America .
US military strategists say they are increasingly concerned that radical movements inspired by Chavez could foment such revolution .
The political mainstream in Latin America has shifted leftward since the late 1990s .
This leftward shift is largely in reaction to the perceived failure of free - market economics .
Leftists have been elected to lead Brazil , Argentina , Chile , Uruguay , Ecuador and Venezuela .
Chavez 's supporters at home counter that the United States has a century - long history of open as well as covert armed intervention in Latin America 's domestic politics and say that it has no right to question Venezuela 's defense preparations .
Carlos Roque Espinoza Leon said that Venezuelans never ask what the US Marines are doing .
Espinoza Leon is a pro - Chavez defense specialist who serves in Venezuela 's National Assembly .
Espinoza said that Peru has 500000 rifles and no one says anything .
Espinoza said no one complains that Colombia is the most militarized country in Latin America .
Espinoza said US history is full of aggression in Latin America .
Espinoza said Venezuelans have to do whatever is necessary to protect Venezuela .
Chavez has famously said that the Venezuelan so - called Bolivarian revolution is peaceful but not unarmed .
Chavez was first elected in 980000 and has a popularity rating of 71 percent in an independent poll by polling firm Datanalisis .
Venezuelan military analyst Alberto Garrido said Chavez is looking for allies in Russia , China , and Iran in order to promote a multi - polar world which will counteract US dominance and encourage grassroots Movements in Latin America to throw off US governmental influence .
Lorenzo Campos is a farmer in Anzoategui state in northern Venezuela and is training as a reservist .
Campos said Venezuelans want the world to know that Venezuelans are not preparing to attack anyone and that the mission is to protect Venezuela .
In May , Chavez 's government announced details in 050500 of an $ 18.6 million deal with a Russian firm to purchase 100000 AK - 103 assault rifles with 30 rounds of ammunition each and the technology transfer for Venezuela to manufacture the rifles .
The deal works out to $ 186.22 per rifle .
This price is considerably less costly than the US mail - order price of $ 825 to $ 850 for the same weapon .
The Government of Venezuela also intends to buy 10 Russian helicopters , 10 Spanish transport planes , and 6 Spanish naval craft .
Venezuelan officials say the government is negotiating with Brazil to buy around 24 air support and training planes .
Chavez has insisted and even his staunchest retired military Critics here agree that the purchases are essential to update old weaponry such as the military 's decades - old Belgian FAL rifles .
Retired General Fernando OCHOA ANTICH said that it is an exaggeration to say Chavez is engaged in an arms buildup .
Ochoa was defense minister in 920000 when then - Lieutenant Colonel Chavez launched a failed coup .
Ochoa stated that Venezuela has n't purchased arms in 25 years and said and Chavez is not aggressively buying weapons in a way that would threaten his neighbors .
Ochoa said Venezuela has never bought Russian arms before and suggested Chavez is doing it to become independent from the US .
Ochoa asked why Chavez is buying a caliber of rifle which is popular among subversive forces in Latin America and stated that the political support Chavez gives to radical leftist movements makes Chavez a continental menace .
The US Pentagon has openly questioned what Chavez will do with the old FAL rifles and whether Chavez might share weapons or ammunition with guerrilla forces in Latin America .
The US government has provided no evidence of Chavez arming or funding leftist insurgencies .
Military analysts and specialists on the Colombian FARC guerrillas say the rebels have plenty of money for weapons from drug trafficking and would not be interested in old Belgian rifles or in assistance from Chavez .
A 030000 study published by the US Defense Intelligence Agency reported that more than half of the weapons seized from Colombian guerrillas from 980000 to 010000 that had markings of foreign militaries were of Venezuelan origin .
The implication was that corrupt or sympathetic members of the Venezuelan military may be aiding guerrillas .
Perhaps more distressing to Chavez 's domestic opponents is the ideological training that critics say Chavez has in mind for the military and for new civilian reservists .
Chavez called earlier in 050000 for so - called Revolutionary units to start preparing the public to resist a superpower aggressor and said the first step would be to train from 100000 to 2 million volunteers in the coming years to back up active - duty armed forces .
Military analysts estimate Venezuela 's active - duty armed forces number 83,000 .
People 's defense units would be created in neighborhoods , State companies , and the Free University established under Chavez and would report directly to the president .
The government insists the reserves will support the armed forces and not act as a fifth column against a possible anti - Chavez coup .
Espinoza said the reserves are not to be used as shock troops for any political party and that if there were a civil war , it would be up to each person to take their own side .
General Julio Ramon Quintero viloria is commander of the reserves .
Quintero said in an interview that the armed forces hope to train 50000 civilians over 20 weekends in the second half of 050000 and could train 300000 more in 060000 .
Quintero said that Venezuelans do n't want to be the colony of any empire and have to be ready for any possibility .
100000 reservists in 050600 engaged with the Venezuelan navy in a massive war game to repel a stronger country that had invaded .
40 employees of the state oil company participated in a similar exercise with 1200 soldiers in 050600 .
Pro - Chavez circles here warn of asymmetrical warfare .
Asymmetrical warfare is a term coined by US military strategists to describe a conflict between unequal combatants where the weaker side employs guerrilla tactics .
The US government has given $ 3.3 billion in mostly military aid to Colombia in the past 5 years .
Chavez loyalists fear that the US government could instigate a proxy war between Colombia and Venezuela as a way to oust Chavez and control Venezuelan oil .
A senior US official in an interview dismissed the notion that the United States Government wants to invade Venezuela as complete and utter nonsense .
The official said the chavista side wishes to make the relationship negative because they 've made a political calculation that Mr. Chavez reached power by constantly being in confrontation with the US .
Another development that has troubled the United States is Chavez 's rollback of military cooperation and joint exercises .
The US military had a Cooperation Office for 50 years in a Venezuelan Fort .
Chavez shut it down in 040000 .
5 US military trainers and students participating in an exchange program were ordered to leave the country in 050400 .
Analysts say that it is likely Chavez is trying to indoctrinate his public and armed forces .
Analysts say that there is no proof that Chavez will use those forces to aid leftist revolutions elsewhere .
2001-10-05
South Africa ( ZA )
International ; terrorism ; Government ; money
The South African government imposed a ban that prohibits the recruitment of people inside or outside of South Africa for mercenary or foreign military assistance .
On 011006 The Citizen newspaper stated that it is illegal for South Africans to be involved in mercenary activity or to render foreign military assistance inside or outside of South Africa .
The Citizen newspaper stated that the South African Foreign Ministry announced on 011005 that the South African government imposed the mercenary activity ban following reports that 1000 Muslims with military training have enlisted to leave South Africa for Afghanistan to fight for the Taliban against the United States .
A report claims that Muslims Against Illegitimate Leaders has claimed that the 1000 Muslim men with military training have volunteered their services and have received the backing of local businessmen .
Reports claim that all of the 1000 Muslim men with military training are over the age of 18 .
Muslims Against Illegitimate Leaders is a Cape Town - based group .
The report was refuted by the Muslim Judicial Council .
South Africa 's Foreign Ministry stated that South Africa 's Foreign Military Assistance Act prohibits the recruitment of people inside or outside of South Africa for mercenary or foreign military assistance .
South Africa 's Foreign Military Assistance Act means that no person is allowed to offer military assistance to any State , organ of State , group or other country , unless permission is granted by the National Conventional Arms Control Committee .
South Africa 's Foreign Military Assistance Act means that foreign military assistance could be rendered only in accordance with an agreement approved by the National Conventional Arms Control Committee .
The South African Foreign Ministry stated that any person found in violation of South Africa 's Foreign Military Assistance Act or any person that fails to receive permission to participate in foreign military activities could be prosecuted and sentenced to a fine , imprisonment or both .
2002-07-01
Peru ( PE )
International ; money ; crime ; human rights ; Government ; narcotics ; politics ; leader
Former Peruvian spy chief Vladimiro Montesinos convicted of illegally taking control of the National Intelligence Service during ex - President Fujimori 's tenure .
Montesinos has been sentenced to 9 years and 4 months for the conviction .
Montesinos plans to appeal the sentence .
On 1 July 2002 former Peruvian spy chief during the government of ex - president Alberto Fujimori , Vladimiro Montesinos , was convicted of illegally taking control of the National Intelligence Service when Montesinos was supposed to be only an adviser to the spy agency .
Montesinos was sentenced to 9 years and 4 months in prison for abuse of authority .
The sentence also ordered Montesinos pay a fine of 3 million dollars as compensation to the State .
Anti - corruption judge Saul Pena stated Montesinos has admitted to the abuse of authority charge .
This is the first ruling of more than 50 charges against Montesinos which include corruption , drug trafficking , illegal arms deals and human rights violations .
Montesinos is alleged to run a network of bribes .
A leaked videotape showed Montesinos bribing a congressman to switch to the government party and triggered events that culminated in Fujimori 's resignation in November 2000 .
Fujimori is accused of dereliction of duty and embezzlement and has been in self - imposed exile in Japan since resigning to avoid the legal action from the Peruvian authorities under the protection of dual nationality .
Montesinos fled Peru in October 2000 but was captured in Venezuela on 23 June 2001 .
Montesinos heard the sentence at the Callao Naval Base where Montesinos has been imprisoned since 2001 .
Montesinos stated Montesinos would consult with a defense lawyer to appeal .
2002-07-25
Hong Kong ( HK )
International ; Government ; crime ; weapons ; narcotics
Hong Kong police making efforts to prevent triads or transnational criminal syndicates to engage in criminal activities
Recently , the Hong Kong police have smashed a transnational theft syndicate , a cross - boundary criminal syndicate and a local triad gang specializing in exploiting youngsters to commit various crimes .
The Oriental Daily News opined that the recent Hong Kong police efforts to cut down 5 of the so - called Triad branch leaders or district team leaders within a short 3 - week period demonstrates the police 's determination to eradicate criminal activities .
The Hong Kong police recently has been working closely with the Guangdong Public Security Bureau for exchange of intelligence and has carried out a series of raids and operations .
During 020718-020724 the Hong Kong police cracked down on triad activities , including drug trafficking , illegal arms possession , theft , burglary and robbery , the selling of pirated and obscene recordings , dutiable cigarettes and trafficking in dangerous drugs .
On 020724 the police dispatched over 100 staff reportedly stormed a propitiation dance and wine party organized to settle some disputes by 2 triad groups at a disco nightclub in mongkok , Kowloon .
The police eventually arrested 3 branch leaders and 14 core Triad members .
Police sources confirmed to the Xinhua New Agency on 020725 that all 17 arrested are still being detailed for questioning .
Hong Kong police sources were quoted as saying that the success of the operation in netting all 17 was the result of the police 's effort to infiltrate into the relevant gangs here .
Police sources also intimated that more crackdowns by the Hong Kong Police on other Triad gangs will follow .
The Hong Kong police 's effort in fighting organized criminals involves actively cooperating with police on the Chinese mainland and in other regions .
The first so - called targeting Conference of the International Drug Enforcement Conference ( IDEC ) far east region was held in Hong Kong earlier in 020700 .
Hong Kong was chosen to host the event following the decision of the IDEC meeting held in Bolivia in 020200 .
Some 42 senior anti - narcotics officers from the Chinese mainland , Hong Kong , Australia , Indonesia , Japan , South Korea , Myanmar , the Philippines , Singapore , Thailand and the United States met .
The Hong Kong police 's internal news letter recently reported that the conference aimed to provide a flexible and forward - thinking environment for sharing information and taking positive action against the organized criminals of transnational drug trafficking .
The Hong Kong police 's exchange of intelligence with the police on the Chinese mainland has been particularly intense .
An 11 - member delegation from mainland China 's National Narcotics Control Commission visited Hong Kong recently to study how the police here enforce their anti - narcotics laws .
The 11 - person team was chaired by the Deputy Director of Bureau of narcotics control of the Chinese Ministry of Public Security Chen cunyi and was briefed by the Hong Kong Police as led by Hong Kong 's head of narcotics bureau Ip Lau Chuen on enforced actions carried out in Hong Kong .
The Hong Kong police and China 's National Narcotics Control Commission also exchanged mutual concerns and discussed a number of issues which included investigations to counter drug trafficking and money laundering activities .
The mainland party closed their visit after meeting with Hong Kong 's deputy assistant commissioner for crime Yam TAT wing and held discussions on a proposal to further cooperate in combating cross - boundary drug trafficking activities .
2002-07-25
Peru ( PE )
Narcotics ; crime ; military ; government
Peruvian military document discloses former intelligence head Montesinos ' links with drug trafficking
A document signed by a former high - ranking officer of the Peruvian army and disclosed on 020725 mentions links with drug trafficking and could further compromise the situation of the former head of the National Intelligence Service of Peru Vladimiro Montesinos .
A front - page story in Peru 's national daily El Comercio said Montesinos could have authorized the military leadership at Alto Huallaga to deal in drugs so as to find the leaders of the rebel group shinning path and the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement .
Alto Huallaga is located northeast of the capital Lima .
The story is based on the final report of the Attorney General 's office .
The Attorney General 's Office report collected an accusatory document handed over by an unnamed Peruvian army general .
El Comercio said that in 920000 the government of then - president Alberto Fujimori put into effect the intelligence operation Scorpion to fight terrorism and drug trafficking in the Amazon region .
As part of the SCORPION plan several agents infiltrated into the groups to gather information on the main rebel and drug - trafficking commanders .
There also were additional orders for transporting cocaine as a cover for the agents .
Montesinos was a close adviser to former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori .
Fujimori resigned in 001100 over a bribery scandal and is now imprisoned in Lima for alleged connection with the scandal .
2002-08-29
Nepal ( NP )
terrorism ; dissent ; military
Soldier injured during bomb defusion in Kathmandu after state of emergency expires .
A Kathmandu police officer reports --
1 soldier of the Royal Nepal Army was seriously injured on 29 August 2002 when a bomb disposal team attempted to defuse the bomb left at an electricity pole in okubahal near Sundhara in Lalitpur district in Kathmandu .
Anti - government insurgents are believed to have planted the bomb .
The injured soldier has been admitted to the army hospital in Kathmandu .
There is no report of any other damage or casualty in the incident .
This is the second bomb explosion in Kathmandu since the morning of 28 August 2002 when a bomb exploded at bishalbazar supermarket in the heart of the city .
The explosion damaged the windowpanes of approximately a dozen shops and injured 2 customers .
A state of emergency expired the evening of 28 August 2002 and the Nepali government has not yet decided to re - impose it .
2002-09-05
Nepal ( NP )
terrorism ; politics ; dissent
Anti - government insurgents in Nepal escalate bombings and murders following end of state of emergency .
Insurgents plan attacks during mid - term parliamentary elections .
20020828 a nine month long nationwide state of emergency in Nepal expired .
Violence by anti - government insurgents across Nepal has escalated and bomb threats and explosions have occurred throughout the country .
At least 5 major bomb incidents occurred in the Kathmandu Valley 20020828-20020904 .
20020828 a bomb exploded at a supermarket in the center of Kathmandu city , injuring 2 .
20020829 in Lalitpur district , Kathmandu valley 1 soldier was killed by a bomb .
After 20020829 2 separate bomb incidents occurred at the municipality in Lalitpur district and a shop in Kathmandu city .
20020904 a bomb exploded at the Kathmandu metropolitan office .
Outside the Kathmandu Valley anti - government guerrillas have murdered many activists from the ruling Nepali Congress party and others and burned or bombed several buildings .
An underground insurgent leader stated in an interview with the English language daily newspaper The Kathmandu Post that insurgents would comprehensively and violently disrupt mid - term parliamentary elections on 20021113 .
20020829 the British Embassy to Nepal warned British nationals of increasing anti - government offensives and advised them to avoid areas cordoned off by Nepali security personnel .
The embassy stated that intelligence assessments suggest that anti - government guerrillas may be preparing an urban campaign to complement their rural activities .
The US State Department stated that after recent bombings US citizens and interests are at heightened risk from anti - government insurgents in Nepal , particularly outside the Kathmandu Valley .
20020903 the US State Department publicly stated that anti - government insurgents plan new violence before the general strike declared for 20020916 .
The Nepali government is considering re - imposition of the state of emergency to maintain law and order .
Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba stated that Deuba would consult with concerned persons and political parties on the possible extension of the state of emergency .
Due to the tension Deuba aborted a planned trip to Johannesburg for the World Summit on Sustainable Development and returned immediately to Nepal after a nine - day visit to Europe .
20011126 the Nepali government imposed a stated of emergency when anti - government guerrillas unilaterally defied 4 month long cease - fire negotiations with the Government and attacked army barracks and police posts .
2002-10-19
Nepal ( NP )
terrorism ; dissent
Several policemen killed and wounded by guerrillas in Nepal following a breakdown in peace talks between guerrillas and the Nepali government .
State - run Radio Nepal reported on 20 October 2002 that at least 3 policemen were killed and 19 others wounded the evening of 19 October 2002 when their vehicle was ambushed by anti - government guerrillas in western Nepal .
Radio Nepal quoted a security official as stating --
3 police personnel including an inspector and a sub - inspector were killed when 2 police vehicles were moving towards Tikapur area in Kailali district in search of the guerrillas .
The policemen killed and wounded were all in the first vehicle .
The driver of the vehicle was also killed in the ambush .
5 police personnel are still missing .
The wounded police personnel were brought to Kathmandu and Nepalgunj for treatment and additional security personnel were mobilized in the area to defend against the guerrillas .
Anti - government insurgents have increased their violent activities across the Himalayan kingdom since the 9 - month - long nationwide state of emergency expired at the end of August 2002 .
The Nepali government initiated peace talks with the guerrillas in August 2001 in order to find a peaceful solution to the guerrilla insurgency that has killed more than 5000 people including policemen , guerrilla members and civilians since it began in the Himalayan kingdom in 1996 .
The 3 rounds of talks held were inconclusive as the guerrillas demanded the establishment of a republican State , an interim government and a new constitution , which the Nepali government rejected .
More than 3700 guerrillas and hundreds of security personnel have been killed since the Nepali government imposed the state of emergency on 26 November 2001 following a series of attacks by the guerrillas on government security forces after the guerrillas broke 4 - month - long cease - fire talks with the government on 23 November 2001 .
2002-11-23
China ( CN ) ; Russian Federation ( RU ) ; Kazakhstan ( KZ ) ; Kyrgyzstan ( KG ) ; Tajikistan ( TJ ) ; Uzbekistan ( UZ )
International ; terrorism ; politics
Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan reports that the member countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization will proceed with the construction of the SCO and begin anti - terrorism discussions at a meeting in Moscow on 23 November 2002 .
Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan stated on 23 November 2002 that the member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization ( SCO ) have progressed in the construction of the Organization and the cooperation among member nations .
Tang and 5 foreign ministers from Russia , Kazakhstan , Kyrgyzstan , Tajikistan and Uzbekistan will meet in Moscow on 23 November 2002 for discussions of the SCO 's construction and a series of international and regional issues .
Tang stated that mechanism construction is the current focus for SCO and that preparation work for creating a secretariat had entered a key stage under the joint efforts of coordinators and experts from the 6 countries .
Tang also stated the Chinese government seeks to complete the drafting of relevant documents before next year 's SCO summit and to attempt to officially open the secretariat after the summit .
Tang stated the SCO still faces a very stern anti - terrorism fight and cited the October 2002 hostage crisis in Moscow .
Tang stated the fact that the terrorist attack in Moscow was masterminded by national separatists and regional extremists demonstrated the necessity and correctness of efforts in reducing the 3 - forces of terrorism , separatism and extremism .
Tang stated that all SCO members should deepen and expand security cooperation by adopting deals on jointly fighting against the 3 - forces and terrorist organizations and by creating a regional anti - terrorist organization in Kyrgyz capital Bishkek as soon as possible .
Tang stated that the Chinese government appreciated and supported some Central Asian countries ' proposals on enhancing anti - drug cooperation .
Tang stated that the Chinese Government signed multilateral anti - drug cooperation pact .
Tang stated anti - drug measures as one of the top tasks of regional anti - terrorist organizations .
Tang stated that economic cooperation is a key area for cooperation between the SCO members , stating --
To gain substantial benefits from economic and trade cooperation , all Member States should strengthen political common sense over economic and trade cooperation and regard economic and trade cooperation as a strategic problem that could affect regional security and the SCO 's development .
Tang also referenced a volatile world situation and stated that the common and pressing task of all SCO members is to manage threats from untraditional security spheres including terrorism , drug trafficking , weapons smuggle , transnational monetary crimes .
Tang stated that peace and development still dominate the current age as the general situation of the world is stable and the economy is developing forward in waves .
Tang stated that the international community was watching the organization closely as more countries and international organizations were willing to conduct dialogues and cooperation with the SCO .
Tang stated that the SCO should further enhance the exchange and cooperation with other parties through wider visibility and a more positive post , which may not only strengthen SCO 's international influence but also reflect SCO 's principles of no - alignment , not - against - a - third - party and opening - up .
Tang stated that the SCO will pass a temporary pact on SCO 's foreign policies at the meeting on 23 November 2002 .
Tang stated that the pact will officially start the SCO 's exchange activities with other organizations and promote the Shanghai - spirit of mutual trust and benefit , equality , cooperation , multicultural respect and the search for common development .
2002-12-28
Iraq ( IQ )
International ; proliferation ; weapons
On December 28 , 2002 United Nations inspectors searched 7 Iraqi sites for banned weapons .
United Nations arms inspectors on December 28 , 2002 visited 7 sites in Iraq in order to search for prohibited weapons of mass destruction according to spokesman Hiro Ueki .
A team of biological experts from the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission visited the Yaffa juice plant of the National Food Industries Co. in Baghdad 's zafaraniyah industrial area .
The Yaffa juice plant is self - financed , has a mixed ownership and is a previously declared and monitored site due to the presence of some dual - use equipment .
A biological team returned to the Al Kindi veterinary vaccines site as a follow - up to the previous inspection carried out on December 22 , 2002 .
Some United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission missile experts conducted an unannounced visit to the Al qaib warhead - filling factory in the Al Qa Qaa complex which undertakes filling of warheads of Al Samoud and Al Fatah missiles .
A United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission chemical team with support from the missile and biological teams inspected the Ibn Younis center , which was a mechanical design establishment in Baghdad .
The site was located within a large compound occupied by other companies and institutions including a regional office of the ruling bath Party and the whole compound was inspected by the United Nations arms experts according to Hiro Ueki .
On December 28 , 2002 other inspectors carried out field operations separately in the Hadre Air Force munitions test site near Mosul which is about 400 kilometers north of Baghdad and two private trading companies .
Currently there are 105 inspectors in Iraq , 99 of whom are from the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission and six from the International Atomic Energy Agency .
The inspectors must give a first report to the United Nations Security Council about Iraq 's weapons programs by January 27 , 2003 .
2003-04-28
France ( FR ) ; India ( IN )
International ; weapons ; military ; money ; Government ; technology
France and India will sign an estimated 2 billion US dollar deal for manufacture in India under licensed production of 6 advanced diesel - propelled Scorpene submarines .
French Defense Minister Michele Alliot - Marie conducted security dialogue with Indian leaders about the deal .
On 28 April 2003 France offered India long - term military cooperation on joint development , technology transfer and sale of high - tech weapons systems .
France and India will sign an estimated 2 billion US dollar deal for manufacture in India under licensed production of 6 advanced diesel - propelled Scorpene submarines .
French Defense Minister Michele Alliot - Marie conducted security dialogue with Indian leaders .
Alliot - Marie stated that --
International cooperation is necessary especially after the recent war in Iraq .
France wants to deepen the intensity of its defense relations with India .
France will upgrade the weapon systems that France sold to India and maintain them at optimal operational use .
France offered the sale of its upgraded Mirage 2002-5 to India along with technology transfer and thermal imagers for India 's Russia - made T - 72 and T - 90 tanks and angular determination system for artillery .
France agreed to --
string high - intensity mines on the line of control in Kashmir .
check cross - border terrorism .
upgrade fire control systems of Indian tanks .
Before delegation - level talks on 28 April 2003 Alliot - Marie had a 1 - to - 1 meeting with Indian Defense Minister George Fernandes .
Alliot - Marie arrived on Sunday .
2003-06-24
France ( FR )
International ; Government ; dissent ; crime ; terrorism ; leader
The French foreign minister characterizes recent raids on People 's Mujahedeen in Paris as part of fight on terrorism .
French Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin said on 030624 that the French Government considers the crackdown of the Iranian armed opposition group the People 's Mujahedeen as part of the operations against terrorism .
At French radio France Info de Villepin said that the People 's Mujahedeen Organization has claimed responsibility for numerous attacks in Iran and said that this dimension of terrorism can not be hidden .
De Villepin said that the arrests were a decision of justice and that there is no diplomatic factor in this affair .
De Villepin said the French had acted strictly on the basis of justice and with the determination to make all efforts to fight terrorism .
The headquarters of the People 's Mujahedeen in northwest Paris was raided by the French police 030622 .
The People 's Mujahedeen accused the French authorities of carrying out the operation as part of a deal with the Iranian government .
This claim the Iranian government has denied .
17 Mujahedeen members are now under judicial investigation for alleged links to a terrorist organization and for funding terrorist activities .
Some 160 people were initially detained in the police crackdown of over 10 of the People 's Mujahedeen 's locations in France .
A Paris map with streets related to the United States Embassy marked out , bulletproof jackets , transmission equipment , more than 200 computers and about 9 million US dollars in cash were seized during the police raids .
The People 's Mujahedeen has been classified by the United States , the European Union and Iran as a terrorist organization .
The People 's Mujahedeen was formed in the 1960s by college - educated young Iranians and was described as an Islamic leftist Organization .
The People 's Mujahedeen staged terrorist attacks inside Iran in the 1970s and killed several US military personnel and civilians working on defense projects in Teheran .
The People 's Mujahedeen was part of the broad coalition that initially supported the Iranian Revolution and participated in the takeover in 790000 of the US embassy in Teheran .
The People 's Mujahedeen fell out with the Government and has built military bases in Iraq and political bases in Europe since the 1980s .
The People 's Mujahedeen in recent years claimed responsibility for the assassination of several persons in the Iranian regime .
These assassinations include that of the Teheran Evin prison 's former director assodalah Ladjevardi in August 980800 and of former Commandant in chief of the Iranian army General Ali Sayad Chirazi in 990400 .
2003-07-09
Australia ( AU )
International ; weapons ; Government ; leader
Despite pressure from the United States and the creation of the Proliferation Security Initiative , Australian Prime Minister John Howard is hesitant to use military force to intercept suspected drug - or weapon - smuggling vessels belonging to the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea .
Australian Government is hesitating at using Australian military to intercept the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( DPRK ) 's vessels suspected of trafficking weapons or drugs .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard was quoted on 9 July 2003 by the Australian Associated Press as stating that the Australian government is not at this stage considering military contributions .
Howard stated the Australian government is considering ways and means of dealing with a very big problem and the Australian Government must choose descriptors and words sensibly because the Australian government is dealing with a volatile issue and a country that is not operating according to Convention .
Howard referenced future talks with Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and South Korean President Roh Woo - hyun on the issue when Howard visits the region during the week of 14 July 2003 .
American government has recently formed a proliferation security initiative that consists of 11 members .
The Proliferation Security Initiative started a meeting 9 July 2003 in Brisbane .
Members of the Proliferation Security Initiative are considering ways of intercepting ships or aircraft suspected of carrying weapons of mass destruction .
The American government has reportedly suggested the Australian military could be involved in stopping nations from transporting weapons both on the high seas and through Australian territorial waters .
2003-11-07
South Africa ( ZA ) ; Brazil ( BR ) ; India ( IN )
International ; politics
Brazilian President Lula da Silva arrived in Pretoria , South Africa on 031107 for bilateral political and economic discussions with South African President Thabo Mbeki scheduled for 031108 .
The South African Press Association reported on 031108 that the Brazilian President Lula da Silva arrived in Pretoria , South Africa on the evening of 031107 for bilateral political and economic discussions scheduled for the morning of 031108 with South African President Thabo Mbeki .
The discussions will be held in Pretoria , South Africa .
South African foreign affairs spokeswoman manusha Pillay stated that Lula da Silva 's aircraft landed at Waterkloof Air Force base shortly after 1730 Greenwich Mean Time .
Lula da Silva 's visit to South Africa follows the second meeting of the South Africa - Brazil Joint Commission held in Pretoria in 030500 .
The Joint Commission was jointly chaired by South African Foreign Minister Dlamini - Zuma and Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim .
Dlamini - Zuma participated in the Brazil - Africa Forum in Fortaleza , Brazil , in 030600 .
The South African Foreign Affairs Department stated that The historic and strategic India - Brazil - South Africa agreement which resulted from the Brazil - Africa Forum had outlined plans for trilateral political and economic cooperation between India , Brazil and South Africa .
India , Brazil and South Africa formed part of a group at recent World Trade Organization negotiations , which advocated support for the development agenda of under - developed countries .
The South African Foreign Affairs Department stated that relations between South Africa and Brazil were strategic in the sense that Brazil had the largest population of people of African origin outside the continent of Africa .
The South African Foreign Affairs Department stated that South Africa and Brazil shared opinions on a variety of global issues including the importance of multi - lateralism and the expansion of the United Nations Security Council .
Discussions between Lula da Silva and Thabo Mbeki would also address new threats to international security such as terrorism , drugs , illegal weapons trafficking and AIDS .
The South African Foreign Affairs Department stated that Brazil is South Africa 's largest trading partner in Latin America .
Trade between Brazil and South Africa totaled 696 million United States dollars in 020000 and 296 million United States dollars more in the trade balance going to Brazil .
The South African Foreign Affairs Department stated that the South African delegation is to brief the Brazilians on progress with the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa 's development .
2004-04-03
Russia ( RU )
International ; Government ; technology ; military ; space ; leader
French President Jacques Chirac became the first Western leader to visit the top - secret Russian Titov test and control space center in Krasnoznamernsk
On 040403 visiting French President Jacques Chirac became the first Western leader to visit the top - secret Russian Titov test and control space center .
Chirac flew into Krasnoznamernsk for a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the space center .
Putin and Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov greeted Chirac at the space center some 40 km southwest of Moscow in Krasnoznamernsk .
The closed Soviet - era military facility was founded in 570000 and collects and analyzes all information gathered from Russia 's military spy satellites .
The space center is also involved in launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles and is working on a plan to develop defensive early warning systems .
Putin held two - hour meeting with Chirac .
Russian Space Forces Commander Lt. Gen. Vladimir Popovkin reported to Chirac and Putin and said it is one of Russia 's priorities to expand space cooperation with France .
France is a leader in the European Space Agency .
Chirac 's visit has come while the Russian Government has displayed uneasiness about NATO 's latest expansion to the Russian borders and the European Union 's imminent enlargement within the former Soviet sphere of influence in Eastern Europe .
At the press conference following the meeting Putin said that Russia 's activities in defending national security are non - aggressive and not targeted against anyone .
The Titov space center is a military facility and is run by Russian space forces and operates under tight security .
Putin said Chirac 's visit there indicated that Russia is developing the most advanced systems of weapons but finds it possible to acquaint its French partners with these projects .
Putin stressed that this points to Russia 's transparency and openness in security matters .
2004-04-07
Philippines ( PH )
International ; terrorism ; media
Philippine Immigrations Bureau 's record showed that two high - profiled terrorist suspects had most likely been staying in the Philippines .
ABS - CBN news channel reported on April 7 , 2004 that the Philippine Immigrations Bureau 's record showed that at least 2 high - profiled terrorist suspects had most likely been staying in the country .
ABS - CBN News Channel stated that one of the two suspects was identified as Isamudin Raduan Hambali .
Hambali was allegedly the mastermind of the Bali bombings in 2002 .
The Philippine Immigrations Bureau record showed Hambali was allowed to enter and leave the Philippines in 2001 .
Hambali was blacklisted as the most wanted terrorist in Asia .
Hambali was arrested in Thailand in February 2004 and in 2007 .
The Immigrations Bureau stated that they only recently received intelligence reports on Hambali 's record in the country .
According to the records Osama bin Laden 's brother Sheik Mohammed Khalid has been able to travel in and out of the country a number of times .
Sheik Mohammed Khalid is allegedly funding terrorist networks in the Philippines .
The military and police have been placed on high alert for the holy week starting April 5 , 2004 .
6 Abu Sayyaf suspects were captured last week in separate raids in Metro Manila .
The suspects ' plot to launch terrorist attacks allegedly as devastating as the Madrid bombings in Spain was foiled .
President Gloria Macapagal - Arroyo said in a statement on April 7 , 2004 that the government is closely watching foreigners in the country who may have taught the local rebels and terrorists to make bombs or have laundered money from the al-Qaeda terrorist group .
ABS - CBN news channel is a local television station in Manila .
2004-04-29
China ( CN ) ; Germany ( DE )
International ; Government ; technology ; politics ; economy
Chinese premier discusses plans for broad cooperation with important trade partner Germany ahead of European visit .
Wen states that the main purpose of the Germany visit is to advance trade , economic and technological exchanges .
In an interview with Dieter stolte on 29 April 2004 Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao stated that the governments of China and Germany should establish solid cooperation , enhance consultations on major international issues and further strengthen trade and technological exchanges .
Wen was interviewed before his imminent visit to Europe by the publisher of Die Welt .
Wen is scheduled to visit 5 European nations including Germany starting 2 May 2004 .
Wen stated that the Chinese people are familiar with Germany particularly due to the profound influence of Karl Marx on China 's revolution and economic construction .
Wen stated that many world - renowned thinkers , writers , philosophers and artists are German .
Wen stated that forerunner of German classic philosophy Gottfried leibnitz called China 's Confucian thought an influence on the Enlightenment movement in 18th century Germany .
Wen stated that the purpose of his visit to Germany is to advance trade , economic and technological exchanges .
The governments of China and Germany are expected to further increase cooperation in this regard .
Wen spoke of his brief visit to Frankfurt during a tour of Nordic nations in 1988 and stated that the friendship between China and Germany is sincere , active and fruitful .
Wen pledged to establish a development goal for Sino - German relations stating that mutual trust constitutes the foundation of bilateral relations .
Wen stated that trade between China and Germany has amounted to 41.8 billion U.S. dollars totaling one - third of China - Europe trade volume .
Wen stated that both China - German and China - Europe trade are expected to double by 2010 .
Wen stated that the governments of China and Germany plan close cooperation in high - tech research and development and among medium and small - sized enterprises .
Wen stated that it is important to create channels for settling trade disputes between the 2 countries and that China and Germany should address each other 's concerns .
China considers Germany the most important trade partner of Europe .
To support this statement Wen cited that 600 of the 7000 Chinese enterprises that invest internationally are in Germany .
Wen stated that the Government of China will support enterprises which invest in Germany with loans , insurance , foreign exchange , finance and investment .
Chinese investment in Germany is much less than German investment in China since China has only recently started investing in this respect .
Wen stated that German investment projects in China have exceeded 3500 with total investment near 10 billion U.S. dollars .
Some German firms such as Volkswagen , Siemens and Daimler - Chrysler have a reputation for high quality and efficiency .
Wen stated that Chinese enterprises can make progress and learn modern management by cooperating with German partners .
Wen stated that Germany is China 's closest European partner in technology transfer .
Wen stated that China considers Sino - EU relations a crucial part of China 's diplomatic strategy and that China and Europe developed a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2003 .
Wen stated that he was optimistic that the EU would lift the arms embargo on China soon and would give China market economy status .
Wen stated that the arms embargo is an outdated result of the cold war .
Wen stated that China is deeply concerned with the current situation in Iraq and is sympathetic to the Iraqi people .
Wen stated that China and Europe have similar positions on the issue of Iraq 's reconstruction .
Wen stated that the United Nations should play a dominant role in the process of Iraq 's reconstruction and that every country should participate .
Wen stated that China is willing to participate in Iraq 's reconstruction process .
Wen stated that it is easy to win a war but much more difficult to win peace .
Wen stated that he is deeply worried about the increasing tension between Palestine and Israel and that the Chinese government hopes the disputes between the 2 countries can be resolved through political negotiation so that the countries can peacefully share land .
With regard to the situation in Palestine and Israel Wen stated that relevant UN resolutions must be implemented .
Wen stated that the Chinese government supports plans for peace in the Middle East and remains firmly opposed to violent retaliation .
When asked to comment on how to temper China 's rapidly growing economy and how to realize balanced growth Wen stated that the Chinese economy is very healthy in general with fast growth , increasing corporate profits , improving agricultural production , expanding foreign trade volume and rapidly growing fiscal revenue and individual incomes .
In order to restrict the excessive fixed asset construction that caused a rise in capital good prices and strained the supply of coal , electricity , oil and transportation , the Chinese government will increase its macro economic control and employ all necessary administrative methods .
Wen stated that the Chinese government will control the loan and land supply and will advance reform in the structural and systematic causes of current economic problems .
With regard to the issue of social balance Wen stated that China 's new leadership has begun to resolve problems of coordination between urban and rural development and between different regions and has focused on balancing economic growth with social progress , domestic construction with external works , and development with respect for nature .
When asked to comment on German Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder 's promise to support sale of nuclear fuel from Hanau to China Wen stated that cooperation between China and Germany in this field is exclusively for peaceful utilization of nuclear energy with equality and mutual benefits .
2004-09-22
China ( CN ) ; Kyrgyzstan ( KG )
International ; Government ; crime ; dissent ; terrorism
China and Kyrgyzstan pledge to make joint efforts to crack down on terrorism and other threats to regional and global security .
China and Kyrgyzstan agreed in a joint communique that terrorism , separatism and extremism still pose major threats to regional security and stability .
The communique was signed by visiting Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and his Kyrgyz counterpart Nikolai Tanayev on 040922 .
The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan will strengthen coordination and cooperation among the relevant authorities in accordance with the Shanghai Convention on Combating Terrorism , separatism and extremism and the China - Kyrgyzstan Agreement on cooperation in combating terrorism , separatism and extremism .
The communique added that China and Kyrgyzstan will continue to adopt strong measures within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization ( SCO ) in jointly fighting all forms of terrorism in order to maintain peace and tranquillity in China and Kyrgyzstan and in the region as a whole .
China and Kyrgyzstan agree that the crackdown on the terrorist force of Eastern Turkistan is a major part of the international anti - terrorism campaign .
The so - called Eastern Turkistan terrorist group comprises a number of secession - minded terrorist cells .
The communique said that China and Kyrgyzstan agree to promote consultations and cooperation on issues of common concern within the framework of the United Nations and other international organizations .
China and Kyrgyzstan said in the communique that peace , stability and a just and rational world political and economic order should be established on the basis of the UN Charter and norms and principles of international law .
China and Kyrgyzstan also agree that international disputes should be solved by peaceful means and the United Nations should play a leading role in safeguarding peace and security in the world and efforts should be made to diversify modes of development .
China and Kyrgyzstan further agree in the communique that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization 's purposes and principles conform to reality and the development trend and the SCO 's activities are conducive to regional peace and stability .
The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan are willing to work together with other members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and take effective measures in fighting terrorism , separatism , extremism , drug trafficking , illegal immigration and cross - border crimes .
The communique said China and Kyrgyzstan are also ready to expand cooperation in economy and other fields with other SCO members , promote the relations between the SCO and other countries and international organizations , and strengthen the SCO 's role in maintaining regional and global peace and development .
2004-10-09
Viet Nam ( VN ) ; Germany ( DE )
International ; Government ; technology ; politics ; economy ; money ; leader
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder attended meetings with Vietnamese government leaders after the 5th Asia - Europe Meeting summit in Hanoi .
German and Vietnamese officials signed 5 documents on financial , technical and business cooperation totaling over 260 million dollars .
Media reports stated on 10 October 2004 that Vietnamese and German officials have pledged to further Vietnamese and German relations in such fields as investment , trade and technology and to support each other in the United Nations ( UN ) .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder attended the 5th Asia - Europe Meeting summit in Hanoi on 8 October 2004 and 9 October 2004 .
During separate talks and meetings with Schroeder held on 9 October 2004 Vietnamese leaders stated that the Vietnamese government supports the German government 's bid for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council and wants to strengthen Vietnamese relations with Germany .
Vietnamese Prime Minister Phan Van Khai stated that the visit by Schroeder is important to the Vietnam - German relationship and the closer cooperation between the 2 continents .
Vietnamese and German officials signed 5 documents on financial , technical and business cooperation totaling over 260 million US dollars .
The documents cover financial cooperation for 2 stages in the 2003-2005 period and the purchase of 16 locomotives for the Vietnam Railway Corporation and equipment for a local cement plant .
Vietnamese State President Tran Duc Luong stated in a meeting with Schroeder that the Vietnamese Government would like to receive more technology transfer and experience from Germany and that Vietnam is developing under the industrialization process .
Schroeder stated that German officials attach great importance to Vietnam in an attempt to strengthen bilateral ties .
The German Government supports the Vietnamese government 's bid for a non - permanent membership of the UN Security Council in the 2008-2009 term and encourages small - and medium - sized German enterprises to do business with Vietnam .
The German government offered the Vietnamese government official development assistance worth more than 480 million dollars in the 1990-2003 period primarily for poverty reduction , agriculture development , healthcare and economic reforms .
The Vietnam - Germany trade volume rose 7.7 percent in 2003 to reach 1.4 billion dollars , of which 815.4 million dollars came from Vietnamese exports .
2004-12-19
Hong Kong ( HK ) ; China ( CN )
technology ; international
Hong Kong universities collaborate with universities , businesses and government sectors of mainland China to coordinate training programs and research centers to promote high - tech research , commercialization , and technology transfer .
In 2004 Hong Kong tertiary institutes actively contributed to improved relations between Hong Kong and mainland China in the research and development of high technology .
Hong Kong universities have collaborated with tertiary education , business and government sectors of mainland China to direct training programs and research centers to promote research commercialization and technology transfer .
In June 2004 Hong Kong Polytechnic University ( PolyU ) joined national university science and technology park of the Virtual University Park in Shenzhen , China becoming the first tertiary institution of Hong Kong to establish research centers and training facilities in mainland China .
President of PolyU Poon Chung - kwong stated that both public and private sectors in Hong Kong are strengthening connections with mainland China in various areas .
Poon stated that cooperation between Hong Kong and mainland China will facilitate universities to more effectively promote technology transfer and human resources development in the mainland creating positive results for both Hong Kong and China .
City University of Hong Kong ( CityU ) and the University of Science and Technology of China ( USTC ) in Anhui province signed an agreement in June to jointly establish a high level joint research center in Suzhou .
The University of Science and Technology of China is a university established by the Chinese Academy of Sciences ( CAS ) .
The agreement is based on the principle of mutually beneficial collaboration in which both universities complement each other 's strengths in working together on joint research projects , supervision and teaching of research students and in administering professional training opportunities .
In addition to partnering with education institutes Hong Kong universities have also joined large - scale high technology exchange programs in mainland China in order to enhance communication between the mainland and Hong Kong in the discipline .
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology ( HKUST ) demonstrated its latest achievements in research and development at the 6th annual China Hi - Tech Fair ( CHTF ) held in Shenzhen in October 2004 .
HKUST demonstrated more than 30 new technologies and products covering a wide range of technologies including nanotechnology , multimedia , logistics and RFID technology , advanced manufacturing , and biotechnology .
HKUST also collaborated with a prominent mainland manufacturer on the development of a nanomaterial - based high - capacity lithium battery .
This collaboration is the most recent in a series of successful technology transfer agreements reached by HKUST .
HKUST President Paul Ching - Wu Chu stated --
HKUST is increasing funding to research new technologies required by industry in the Pearl River Delta .
The University will continue to leverage its extensive relationships with international research institutions and multi - national corporations to enhance the development of advanced technologies which can find immediate practical application in China .
