The US government cut its fuel aid to the North Korea in retaliation .
2002-12-26
North Korea ( KP )
proliferation ; international ; politics
North Korea was criticized on December 26 , 2002 for moving to restart its long - dormant nuclear program .
The UN atomic agency said such moves were tantamount to nuclear brinkmanship .
North Korea was criticized on December 26 , 2002 for moving to restart its long - dormant nuclear program .
The UN atomic agency said such moves were tantamount to nuclear brinkmanship .
South Korean President Kim Dae Jung told officials that North Korea 's shifting of unspent fuel rods into a building housing a reactor capable of producing weapons - grade plutonium aggravated an already - tense situation .
Kim Dae Jung and officials assembled at an urgent national security meeting .
Kim Dae Jung said that North Korea moved to restart frozen nuclear facilities despite the international community 's efforts for a peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue .
This further aggravated the situation .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said the shift of the rods was proactive .
Plutonium could be extracted for making nuclear warheads within months .
The United States dismissed the action as nuclear blackmail .
There was strong criticism from the United Nations ' International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) .
Beginning last week IAEA saw its monitoring equipment disabled and seals removed from the nuclear facilities that had been dormant since a 1994 accord with the United States .
IAEA director Mohamed ElBaradei dismissed claims by North Korea 's government that it was only acting in the wake of an energy crisis in North Korea .
ElBaradei said that the reprocessing facility at Yongbyong is irrelevant to North Korea 's ability to produce electricity .
North Korea has no current legitimate peaceful use for plutonium given the status of its nuclear fuel cycle .
ElBaradei said restarting North Korea 's nuclear facilities without appropriate safeguards and towards producing plutonium raises serious non - proliferation concerns is tantamount to nuclear brinkmanship .
The move of 1,000 unspent rods into the reactor building is the latest action taken by the energy - starved North since the apparent collapse of a 1994 accord that froze its nuclear capacity .
The move is confirmed by both the UN agency and the South Korean Foreign Ministry .
The facility has the capacity for 8,000 rods .
All have been stored in a cooling pond at Yongbyon since the United States offered North Korea annual supplies of heavy fuel oil and two new light water nuclear reactors in return for Pyongyang 's agreement to freeze its nuclear operations at Yongbyon .
The eight - year - old deal has fallen apart following US revelations in October 2002 that North Korea had admitted to running a separate nuclear program based on enriched uranium technology in violation of the accord .
North Korea is bankrupt and on the brink of economic collapse .
It has been pushing for negotiations with the United States .
Experts say North Korea needs aid and security guarantees from the United States to ensure its survival .
Throughout the nuclear dispute North Korea has said it is ready to sit down and talk with the United States and even to refreeze its Yongbyon program .
President Kim has been pushing the United States to accept the offer under Kim 's sunshine policy of engagement with the North .
President Kim has criticized the United States for previously sidelining South Korea in handling North Korea and said South Korea should take a leading role .
Kim was critical of the US handling of the stand - off when eight years ago the United States and North Korea drew back from the brink of war over Pyongyang 's plutonium program .
The President has complained that South Korea was sidelined during the entire dispute and ended up paying a multi - billion dollar bill for the light - water reactors .
Kim 's chief security adviser Yim Sung - joon said the President instructed that North Korea should take lead because the North Korean nuclear issue is important to the Korean peninsula .
This was said in a statement after December 26 , 2002 's meeting .
The United States said it would stand up to nuclear blackmail and has ruled out negotiations .
The US pledged not to reward bad behavior .
Experts have joined the IAEA in dismissing the idea that North Korea was relaunching the reactor for energy purposes .
Director General for International institutions at the ministry in Seoul Chun Young - Woo said it would produce at its peak enough for one large office building which is a negligible amount .
2002-12-26
Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP )
International ; Government ; technology ; energy ; weapons
Experts warn that North Korea could produce weapons - grade plutonium from spent fuel rods at re - opened nuclear reactor .
Existing rods could produce 3-6 atomic bombs in 6-8 months .
Experts stated that 8000 spent fuel rods reportedly stockpiled by North Korea at a nuclear reactor the country is threatening to re - start could be used to produce plutonium for nuclear weapons .
Experts stated that the rods could produce 3-6 atomic bombs in 6-8 months .
The IAEA stated that North Korea additionally moved 1000 fresh rods into the nuclear reactor as well .
The reactor could produce enough spent rods to construct 1 atomic bomb per year if reactivated .
The experimental nuclear plant in Yongbyon is a miniature of electricity - producing nuclear plants in Western countries but operates on the same principles .
The Yongbyon plant produces 5 megawatts .
Plants in France produce 1300 megawatts .
The Yongbyon plant is 100 km north of the North Korean capital Pyongyang .
Nuclear reactor process --
4 meter fuel rods containing uranium oxide are burned to initiate fission -- the nucleus of the uranium atom is split , releasing neutrons that collide with other atoms , creating more neutrons in a chain reaction .
Fission produces immense heat which is applied to water to create steam which drives turbines to generate electricity .
Plutonium and other radioactive byproducts of the process accumulate and decrease the effectiveness of the rods until they are spent after 3-4 years .
Spent rods consisting of highly radioactive plutonium and residual uranium are cooled in pools of water for several years to diminish radioactivity and then the plutonium is then recovered in nitrate form and converted into oxide .
The recovered plutonium can be mixed with uranium for reuse in the reactor or used in making nuclear weapons .
Nuclear experts stated that to make weapons , a high proportion of plutonium 239 ( military grade plutonium , as opposed to the commercial plutonium used in power plants ) must be extracted .
2002-12-26
United Kingdom ( GB )
proliferation ; international ; politics
British officials are deeply concerned by a warning from the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) concerning North Korea 's opening of the Yongbyon facility and possible nuclear intentions .
A UK Foreign Office spokeswoman said Thursday that the UK government is deeply concerned about the latest revelations in a warning by the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) concerning North Korea 's possible nuclear intentions .
The comments came after the IAEA accused the North Korean government of nuclear brinkmanship and said the North Korean government had begun work to reactivate the Yongbyon reactor in breach of a 940000 agreement with the United States Government .
The UK Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said the UK government is in regular contact with international partners about the implications of the latest developments and is committed to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction wherever it may occur .
The spokeswoman added that the North Korean government must comply with international obligations and eliminate nuclear weapons .
The IAEA has said the North Korean government had no current legitimate peaceful use for plutonium that could be produced at the newly reopened Yongbyon site that is capable of producing weapons - grade plutonium .
The IAEA said the North Koreans had moved 1000 fresh fuel rods into the Yongbyon reactor building .
Of more concern are the 8000 spent fuel rods at the facility they started unsealing 021215-021221 and the dismantling of IAEA monitoring equipment at the site .
Experts say the spent rods could be used to build 3-6 atomic bombs within 6-8 months .
The United States Government offered supplies of fuel oil and 2 new light water nuclear reactors in return for the North Korean government 's agreement to freeze nuclear operations under the 940000 agreed framework shutting down Yongbyon .
The agreement fell apart following US government revelations in 021000 that the North Korean government had admitted to a separate nuclear program based on enriched uranium technology .
The US government suspended oil shipments to North Korea as punishment .
The North Korean government in turn claimed to be in desperate need of power generation after the oil supplies were cut and began during 021215-021221 to unseal the spent fuel rods at the facility and to dismantle monitoring equipment .
2002-12-27
Republic of Korea ( KR ) ; Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( KP )
International ; Government ; energy ; weapons ; leader ; politics ; war and conflict
South Korea threatens to cease support following North Korean nuclear re - activation .
President - elect Roh seeks peaceful solution .
20021227 South Korean President - elect Roh Moo - hun stated --
South Korea will cease support if North Korea continues to ignore global concern over the country 's nuclear weapons program .
North Korea should not act further to aggravate the situation .
Inter - Korean exchanges will suffer if tensions among South Koreans escalate due to the actions of North Korea .
South Korea must take initiative in coping with the crisis because the issue directly concerns the Korean people 's survival .
Roh campaigned on a pro - engagement platform and has endorsed President Kim Dae - jung 's softline sunshine policy of engagement with North Korea .
An aide stated that Roh 's incoming Administration has established channels of communication with the North to defuse the crisis and discover North Korea 's intentions .
The US supports the initiative .
Roh takes office in 20030200 .
North Korea is re - activating nuclear operations at Yongbyon after violating a 1994 arms control deal with the United States .
The IAEA stated that North Korea has cut seals and impeded surveillance equipment at 3 facilities at Yongbyon .
Yongbyon is 100 km north of Pyongyang .
The United States urged North Korea to meet obligations under international arms control accords .
US State Department spokeswoman Brenda Greenberg stated that attempts to restarts facilities would compound North Korea 's violations of these international commitments .
20030110 President George W. Bush is to send an envoy to Seoul do discuss defusing the crisis with Roh .
Roh will subsequently send an envoy to Washington .
Roh has advocated a peaceful resolution to the crisis through dialogue and has criticized the US hardline policy as potentially dangerous .
20021226 incoming Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Republican Senator Richard Lugar stated on NBC television that a US attack would be inadvisable because North Korea would likely retaliate with a potentially devastating attack on the Seoul area .
Roh 's aide acknowledged Lugar 's statement .
Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer stated that Australia will suspend plans to open an embassy in Pyongyang to avoid appearing to condone North Korea 's nuclear actions .
20021226 IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei stated --
North Korea has moved 1,000 fresh fuel rods into the reactor building at Yongbyon -- which is capable of producing military plutonium -- as a prelude to reactivation .
North Korea has no use for plutonium in its civilian program and thus may be planning military activity .
The IAEA 's board of governors will shortly issue a report on the recent developments .
The Board was originally scheduled to meet 20030106 .
2002-12-30
China ( CN )
Space ; science ; technology
China launches unmanned space craft Shenzhou IV into a preset orbit with the eventual goal of sending astronauts into space .
30 December 2002 at 00:40 am -- China launched space craft Shenzhou IV into a preset orbit .
Shenzhou IV was launched by a Long March II F carrier rocket from Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwestern Gansu province .
Chinese scientists announced Shenzhou IV would conduct experiments on the astronaut flight system and control of Shenzhou IV 's environment and life support system .
A Chinese aerospace official announced Shenzhou IV would return to Inner Mongolia within 7 days .
According to the Xinhua news agency the leading designer of the astronaut system for China 's manned space program commander Su Shuangning stated --
China will soon send astronauts to space .
Shenzhou IV is equipped to carry astronauts .
Chinese astronauts must first receive training in basic theories , professional skills and flight procedures and tasks .
In July 2002 the Pentagon announced --
China could send astronauts into space in 2003 .
China plans to build a reusable space vehicle similar to the US space shuttle .
14 Chinese astronauts have undergone training on Shenzhou space craft .
The Chinese astronauts were selected from thousands of air force pilots .
In 2001 Russia signed a 5 - year space cooperation agreement with China .
The agreement stipulates that Russia provide China with manned space craft technologies and train Chinese astronauts in Russian facilities .
In May 2002 official Chinese media announced that China plans to establish a base on the moon to exploit the Moon 's mineral resources .
Space expert at the French Institute for International Relations in Paris Laurence nardon stated --
US should not view China 's space manned program as a security threat .
China is a member of the ballistic missile club .
China 's space program is less of a world threat than India 's or Israel 's .
Some US researchers believe China is developing weaponization of its space technology .
China may be developing weaponization of its space technology but is not currently able to implement it .
China plans to put humans in space for prestige .
In November 2002 Chinese Aerospace Science and Technology Corp. President Zhang Qingwei stated --
Shenzhou III 's carrier rocket was equipped with a fault - detecting and handling system .
Shenzhou IV is backed by a ground - based search and rescue system and reinforced by other more reliable safety measures than Shenzhou III 's .
Designer of China 's spacecraft system Qi Faren announced --
The functions , indices and data relevant to manned flights tested well on three previous successful launches and landings of Shenzhou spaceships between 1999 and March 2002 .
China established a space program in 1992 .
Shenzhou I launched in November 1999 and returned to earth within one day .
10 January 2001 -- Shenzhou II launched .
Western analysts suspect re - entry failed .
25 March 2002 -- Shenzhou III launched .
The re - entry vehicle successfully returned to Inner Mongolia a week later .
Only the US and former USSR have sent humans into space .
Shenzhou IV is also referred to as Divine Vessel IV .
2003-01-10
Russian Federation ( RU ) ; France ( FR ) ; French Guiana ( GF )
International ; weapons ; space
European Space Agency is finalizing deal with Russian government to allow for Soyuz rockets to be launched from Europe 's space command at Kourou , in French Guiana replacing phased - out Ariane - 4 launchers .
Plans for Soyuz launches have been delayed by funding issues since costly modifications to launch facilities must be made to accommodate the Russian rocket .
The European Space Agency ( ESA ) stated 10 January 2003 that it was finalizing a deal with the Russian government that could allow Soyuz rockets to be launched from Europe 's space command at Kourou , French Guiana .
The deal between the ESA and the Russian Government could be written as early as March 2003 and signed by the Russian government in April 2003 .
The deal would allow for Soyuz missiles to help replace phased - out Ariane - 4 launchers .
Ariane - 4 launchers send payloads up to 2.8 tons into geostationary orbit .
Spacecraft launched from Kourou benefit from the Earth 's full rotational speed on the equator to aid their trajectory into space .
With this extra momentum , the spacecraft require less fuel .
Plans for the Soyuz launches have been delayed by funding issues since modifications to be made to launch facilities in order to accommodate the Russian rocket are predicted to cost between 250 and 300 million euro .
The Russian space program has experienced funding problems and was unwilling to contribute one third of the bill as ESA had requested .
In November 2002 the Government of France proposed to fund the Russian Government 's share with a loan to be paid back by profits from the launches .
The ESA stated that no financial divisions have been decided yet .
France joined Russia in creating a joint company Starsem in 1996 to commercialize and market the Soyuz launches from Russia 's Baikonur Space Center in Kazakhstan .
Soyuz missiles used to send satellites and cosmonauts into space are the most used type of spacecraft .
Soyuz missiles have over 1700 launches since first launching the Sputnik satellite into orbit in 1957 .
2003-01-11
Japan ( JP ) ; Russian Federation ( RU )
proliferation ; international ; politics
Prime Minister Koizumi meets with President Putin to demand that North Korea reverse NPT withdrawal .
Koizumi pledges continued support for Russian disarmament .
20030111 Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi stated to a gathering of scientists at Kurchatov Research Institute in Moscow --
Japan demands that North Korea annul the 20030110 decision to withdraw from the nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) .
Japan will collaborate with the International Atomic Energy Agency and countries including Russia to ensure North Korea 's reversal .
Koizumi condemns and is concerned by North Korea 's decision .
20030110 Koizumi held a day - long summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin .
Koizumi stated that Koizumi and Putin held identical views on the North Korean crisis .
Late 20030110 a Japanese spokesman stated to Interfax news that Koizumi encouraged Putin to employ the Russian government 's influence on North Korean leadership in pursuing a reversal .
Putin consented to Koizumi 's request and stated that dialogue with North Korean leader Kim Jong - Il was possible .
Koizumi stated that Russia , Japan , and the international community would benefit from improved bilateral relations if Russia and Japan could overcome previous disputes .
In 1945 the Soviet Union seized 4 Southern Kuril Islands still claimed by Japan .
Koizumi stated --
Japan will continue to assist Russia in dismantling weapons of mass destruction including decommissioned nuclear submarines for which Japan will allocate over 200 million dollars .
The weapons should be neutralized immediately in the interest of global security .
Japan will contribute 100 million dollars to the processing of weapons - grade plutonium to prevent appropriation by terrorists .
Japan has contributed 56 million dollars to scientific projects and will continue to cooperate with Russia .
Russia has previously refused to pressure North Korea over defense policy .
Analysts believe that Russia has limited authority to do so .
Koizumi visited the grave of Japanese World War II prisoners in a cemetery at the donskoi monastery in Moscow .
Koizumi will visit the Far Eastern city of Khabarovsk late 20030111 and return to Tokyo 20030112 .
2003-01-20
India ( IN )
International ; crime ; technology
An Indian information technology expert disproved the phobia of cyber attacks and said the threat was overstated .
An Indian information technology expert disproved the phobia of cyber attacks and said the threat was overstated .
Director of the Indian Institute of Information Technology S. Sadagopan said the cyber attack is similar to the Y 2K myth ; although these things could happen , they will not happen .
Y 2K was a computer malfunction expected to occur when 1999 changed to 2000 but it did not inflict widespread damage .
Sadagopan addressed delegates at a conference on information security .
Sadagopan stated that these things happen with all technology if history is reviewed and that imaginative people can cause extraordinary problems even with primitive technology .
Sadagopan said the G 8 nations have lost 43 billion dollars due to cyber crime .
The G 8 nations are comprised of France , Britain , Canada , Germany , Italy , Japan , Russia and the United States .
Sadagopan said most people have an alarmist view of such attacks .
The attacks range from viruses , flame - mail ( abusive e-mail ) , stone throwing ( disfiguring a home page ) to cyber squatters and scripts for breaking into Internet sites .
Sadagopan stated that many sensitive installations such as nuclear and power plants , and missiles have an Internet protocol address and that once someone hacks into the sites one can trip the power lines or lead planes and missiles to their choice destinations .
Sadagopan added that this type of hacking is possible , but there is no need to panic .
Sadagopan said it needs to be recognized and while we should be sensitive about such threats it should not be sensationalized rather a pragmatic approach should be taken .
The U.S. State Department said in May 2002 that a computer Hacker had infiltrated its e-mail system .
The Hacker sent a potentially damaging virus to more than 20000 people who receive travel warnings electronically .
A 50 - line code of the love bug virus affects more than 2.8 million files monthly .
Hackers have sent love letter e-mail to all chosen Heads of States from adolfahitler.com .
Pentagon sites had denial of service for more than three hours .
India 's premier nuclear research center Bhabha Atomic resarch center sites were disfigured .
Sadagopan stated that a section of technologists think cyber soldiers , cyber policemen and cyber insurance is needed .
Sadagopan said the threat is overstated and that it is like any other threat , like a foreigner driving on Bangalore roads .
The threat needs to be accepted and then education is the next step .
Sadagopan said it needs to be started today .
It cannot be postponed .
2003-01-22
Pakistan ( PK )
International ; Government ; energy ; weapons ; technology ; proliferation ; military
Pakistan authorities announce upgrades of security of nuclear facilities and employees after press reports alleging leaks of its its nuclear technology .
Pakistan on 030122 announced upgrades to the security of nuclear facilities and employees after a series of press reports alleging leaks of nuclear technology to North Korea and possibly Iran and Iraq .
The Los Angeles Times , New York Times and Japanese media have carried several reports quoting unnamed US officials saying that Pakistani scientists or military officers had sold the North Korean government uranium - enrichment technology for the nuclear program .
Pakistan 's government has angrily rejected the reports as malicious and insisted that nuclear technology had never been sold or leaked .
The military statement said Pakistan 's has a long - standing capability for achieving the highest levels of safety and security which is adequate and fail - safe .
The Pakistani government 's announcement came after President Pervez Musharraf chaired a meeting of the Development Control Committee of the National Command Authority ( NCA ) to review security of Pakistan 's nuclear program .
An official military statement said the physical protection and custodial controls at Pakistan 's nuclear sites and facilities has been recently upgraded .
The statement said the NCA gave approval for further tightening of different defensive layers and enhancing physical security as well as ensuring the effectiveness of watertight safety of materials , equipment and technology .
The NCA also adopted steps to improve personal reliability programs for people working in nuclear - related programs .
Scientists , engineers and military officers working in nuclear programs are routinely screened every 2 years according to a survey of Pakistan 's nuclear security by Italy 's arms control institution the Landau network .
2 Pakistani nuclear scientists were arrested 12 months ago and interrogated by US Federal Bureau of Investigation agents on suspicion of possible cooperation with the Taliban .
These arrests underlined fears that nuclear technology could fall into the hands of Islamic extremists .
Pakistan 's government has been developing a nuclear program to match arch - rival India 's since the 1970s and only went public with the program in 980500 when testing 5 nuclear devices .
Jane 's Defence Weekly estimates that Pakistan 's government possesses 25-50 nuclear warheads and has a uranium enrichment plant and plutonium reprocessing plant close to the capital Islamabad and at least 4 nuclear reactors across the country .
Pakistan 's NCA also decided on 030122 not to respond to India 's 3 missile tests this month and stated that Pakistan 's government has no desire to increase tension in the region .
2003-01-25
India ( IN ) : Pakistan ( PK )
dissent ; war and conflict
Islamic activists condemn the arrests of Kashmiri separatist leaders in the Indian zone of the disputed Himalayan region .
On 25 January 2003 many Islamic activists rallied against the arrests of Kashmiri separatist leaders in the Indian zone of the disputed Himalayan region .
The fundamentalist Jamaat - i - Islami party of Pakistani - administered Kashmir organized the rally .
The rally was held on the call of the All Parties Hurriyat Conference ( APHC ) .
The APHC is an umbrella group of anti - India outfits .
Witnesses to the protest stated --
Protestors carried banners and placards .
Protestors chanted that India should release Syed Ali Geelani and other Kashmiri leaders and that Indian aggressors should leave Kashmir .
9 June 2002 Indian police arrested Syed Ali Geelani .
Geelani was charged with aiding and abetting terrorist activities and funding terrorist organizations in the Kashmir state .
Geelani is an executive member of Hurriyat .
Geelani is held in the Ranchi jail in India 's eastern state of Jharkhand .
APHC organized protest after reports that Geelani 's health was deteriorating .
Geelani is elderly .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan .
Kashmir is claimed by both India and Pakistan .
The dispute over Kashmir caused 2 of the 3 wars between India and Pakistan since India and Pakistan 's independence from Britain in 1947 .
An Indian insurgency has resulted in the deaths of more than 37500 people in 13 years .
Local Jamaat - i - Islami leader Sheikh Aqeel told protestors --
India has been detaining Kashmiris to suppress Pakistan 's freedom movement .
the freedom movement will never be suppressed .
Pakistan 's armed forces should advance in Kashmir to liberate its territory under Indian occupation .
Jamaat - i - Islami 's youth wing staged a separate demonstration in Kashmir .
Jamaat - i - Islami 's youth wing 's demonstration was against a US attack on Iraq .
A banner carried by protestors stated that a US attack on Iraq would be terrorism against Islam .
Protesters burned an effigy of US President George W. Bush before dispersing .
2003-01-26
Republic of Korea ( KR ) ; United States ( US )
International ; terrorism ; technology ; Telecom
20030126 the international community surveyed the damaged caused by the slammer worm Internet attack .
Some networks remain inoperable .
20030125 the slammer worm rapidly affected millions of online computer users , especially in Asia .
Vice President of macafee avert labs and leader of network associates ' antivirus response team Vincent gulloto stated that by late 20030125 the worm affected nearly 250000 computers worldwide .
The attack targeted the popular Microsoft database software SQL server 2000 .
Traffic control sites worldwide registered decelerated email and other transmissions at at 0530 GMT on 20030125 but the private Internet - monitoring and network protection advising group cert and the national infrastructure Protection Center stated that activity normalized by 1500 GMT .
In South Korea the worm caused the country 's worst telecommunications breakdown through the crashing of high - speed networks .
Online shopping and banking transactions were paralyzed .
Shortly before 12 am 20030125 online service resumed in South Korea .
Traffic remained slow for South Korean Internet users 20030126 .
The worm struck the US at 0530 GMT 20030125 .
Most of Bank of America 's 13000 ATMs were inoperable .
Some trans - Atlantic Internet and phone service was disrupted .
US companies were able to repair systems without disrupting business because the attack occurred on a weekend .
Other countries --
Computer experts in China and Taiwan stated that clients have reported major networking problems .
Damage in Japan was limited to some schools and companies but experts warned of a possible expansion with the start of the work week on 20030127 .
20030126 South Korean information and communication minister Lee Sang - Chul held emergency talks with State and private network experts and apologized for the Internet breakdown .
Lee stated --
A second attack by the slammer worm or more malignant variants could more severely disrupt networks on 20030127 .
Both the public and firms are required to follow the Ministry 's guidelines .
Computer experts warned that slammer could be a pilot for a larger future attack .
Director of Research Alan paller of the high - tech security organization the Sans Institute in Bethesda , Maryland stated that in the near or distant future a similar attack will occur .
Security experts stated that hackers could have implemented the slammer attack on the weekend in order to gauge damage in advance of launching a more devastating attack .
Similar attacks --
In 20010700 the Code Red virus affected 300000 computers .
The slammer worm was the largest Internet attack since the Nimda virus on 20010918 .
Slammer is a computer worm .
Unlike viruses , worms do not require a user to initiate a command such as opening an email attachment to infect the computer .
Worms carry a self - regenerating mechanism that enables them to multiply rapidly across the web and triggers the flow of copious transmissions into computer systems .
2003-01-28
Japan ( JP )
proliferation ; energy ; international
Plutonium enough to produce 25 nuclear bombs which has gone unaccounted for at a Japanese nuclear facility is mostly due to measuring shortcomings and miscalculations .
A nuclear fuel reprocessing plant about 100 kilometers ( 60 miles ) north of Tokyo in Tokaimura has extracted 6890 kilograms ( 15158 pounds or 7.6 short tons ) of plutonium from spent nuclear fuel since it began operating in 770000 .
A Japanese education and science ministry official said on 030128 that the total currently accounted for at the facility was 206 kg short of the plutonium initially estimated to have been produced by reprocessing spent nuclear fuel from power plants .
It is known to take 5-8 kg of plutonium to produce a nuclear bomb .
The official at the ministry 's nuclear safeguard office said that the case had been reported to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) of the United Nations .
The finding was also reported to the Japanese government 's Atomic Energy Commission on 030128 .
The education and scienc Ministry denied the possibility that any plutonium had been illegally removed from the facility .
The official said 94 kg of the missing plutonium is presumed to have dissolved into waste water without being measured .
The official added that another 29 kg disintegrated into another type of element .
The official said that plutonium may have been stuck to fuel tubes or mixed with waste water being processed to be solidified in glass and disposed of .
The official also pointed to possible errors in the estimate of plutonium extracted in the process .
The official said that there was a need for improvements in measuring and evaluating methods of plutonium .
The report was based on inspections at the Tokaimura facility done under IAEA safeguard rules designed to prevent the transfer of nuclear materials for production of nuclear weapons .
Tokaimura is a Pacific Coast complex of nuclear - related facilities and made headlines in 990000 when the world 's worst nuclear plant accident since Chernobyl in 860000 occurred at a uranium reprocessing plant there .
3 workers set off a critical reaction in 990000 when they poured too much uranium into a precipitation tank .
2 of the 3 workers later died .
Safety concerns at nuclear facilities in Japan were further highlighted on 030127 when a High Court upheld the suspension of operations of a troubled experimental fast - breeder reactor which has been shut since an accident in 950000 .
2003-01-28
Italy ( IT )
International ; technology ; Telecom ; government
On 030128 Italy 's Internet network was hit by most serious Internet attack to date that severely disrupted Italy 's post offices .
Officials stated that on 030128 Italy 's Internet network was hit by most serious Internet attack to date that severely disrupted Italy 's post offices .
The attack on Italy 's Internet network occurred as similiar attacks around the globe appeared to be subsiding .
A computer security expert named Fulvio berghella stated that the 030128 attack on Italy 's Internet network were the result of a digital worm named sq hell and that the attack was the worst Internet attack ever to hit Italy .
Fulvio berghella stated that the digital worm named sq hell was particularly virulent and replicated itself at the rate of 8000 times an hour .
Fulvio berghella heads an Internet security firm named securitynet .
Fulvio berghella stated that the digital worm named sq hell has a very high capacity to replicate itself and the digital worm named sq Hell is slowing down the Poste italiane computer network and making some computers inoperable .
The sq Hell is considered a computer worm .
A computer worm is unlike a computer virus and does not require a user to open an e-mail attachment or initiate any other type of command to infect the computer .
Paolo baldelli stated that online work at Italy 's 14000 post offices was severely disrupted by the Internet attack .
Paolo baldelli stated that the Internet attack overloaded computers with millions of messages .
Paolo baldelli is the official responsible for Poste italiane 's computer system .
Beginning at 0100 Greenwich Mean Time Poste italiane 's computers were overwhelmed with the messages entitled Hi .
Paolo baldelli stated that it took a team of 80 technicians hours to free the computer systems of 9000 of the 14000 Poste italiane 's offices .
Italian consumers were unable to use Poste italiane 's cash machines or pay utility bills online .
Paolo baldelli stated that the problem with Poste italiane 's computer systems would be resolved in the remaining 5000 post offices and normal service would resume on 030129 .
In 000000 Italy was attacked by a strike similar to the 030128 attack on Italy 's Internet network and at least 8 other Internet attacks in 020000 .
A fast spreading Internet attack by the Sapphire or SQL slammer worm over the weekend effected an estimated 250000 computers worldwide .
Many of the 250000 computers were located in the United States and Asia .
2003-02-04
India ( IN ) ; Singapore ( SG )
International ; terrorism
Indian Deputy PM identifies Southeast Asia as a new center for jihadi terrorism and urges closer international counter - terrorism cooperation following bombing in Bali .
20030204 Indian Deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani stated at a public lecture in Singapore addressing academics , diplomats and business executives that Southeast Asia was becoming an operational center of terrorism and Governments must cooperate more closely to combat terrorism .
20021012 terrorists executing a bombing attack on the Indonesian resort island of Bali .
Indonesian authorities stated that the Islamic militant group Jemaah Islamiyah is responsible .
The attack is considered part of a global incitement to Jihad by al-Qaeda and its allies .
Advani stated --
The Bali attack established Southeast Asia as a potential new theater for the spread of jihadi extremism .
India previously knew that the operational center of jihadi terrorism is located near India due to the US - lead bombing campaign against extremist bases in Afghanistan .
Advani stated --
The menace of religious extremism has inspired international terrorism .
Terrorism should not be identified with any religion but jihadi terrorism has spread more global violence than any other extremist doctrine .
Advani stated --
Countries must continue in pursuing enhanced cooperation including intelligence sharing and border controls to combat the problem perpetrated by global terrorism and its concomitants -- drug trafficking , illegal arms trade and cross - border crime .
While the international consensus is that terrorism cannot be tolerated , the instruments the international community proposes to deal with terrorism do not meet the requirements of the problem .
Advani stated at a forum organized by the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies --
Countries must formulate and implement an integrated and cooperative approach to security by designing new security systems to protecting transport , communication and energy infrastructure from terrorist attack as well as obstructing terrorists ' funding .
Unilateral military action such as the standoff between the US and Iraq on disarming Iraqi President Saddam Hussein threatens peace and could lead to unforeseen negative consequences .
The issue of weapons of mass destruction should be dealt with in the UN .
Rising tensions in the Middle East will affect oil prices .
The the region should provide greater energy security through developing alternative energy technologies .
Advani visited Singapore 20030202-20030205 .
2003-02-10
Myanmar ( MM )
dissent ; military ; government
Myanmar 's military arrested 12 activists from pro - democracy parties for anti - government activities undertaken with funding from dissident expatriates .
On 30210 Myanmar 's military stated that the military had arrested 12 activists from pro - democracy parties for anti - government activities undertaken with funding from dissident expatriates .
At a specially called media briefing a Myanmar military spokesman stated that he 12 arrested activists were mostly members of the opposition party named National League for Democracy .
National League for Democracy is headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi .
Aung San Suu Kyi was released 020500 from 19 months of house arrest .
Human rights activists claim Myanmar still has 1200 to 1300 political prisoners despite a series of political prisoners releases in 020000 .
At the specially called media briefing a military intelligence official Brigadier General Than Tun that it has been discovered that some members of the legally standing political parties inside Myanmar have been engaged in anti - government activities with financial support from dissident expatriates .
Than Tun stated that some of the 12 arrested activists had produced anti - government materials .
The people alleged to have produced anti - government materials included a National League for Democracy Vice Chairman from Kamayut township named Khin Win and Shan National League for Democracy 's Secretary Sai Nyunt Lwin .
The pamphlets containing anti - government materials had been found with another National League for Democracy member named Maung Maung Myint .
Maung Maung Myint had returned to Myanmar from exile in Thailand .
Maung Maung Myint 's arrest in Myanmar had led to the arrests of the other 11 activists .
Than Tun stated Maung Maung Myint was arrested on 030210 together with around 450 anti - government pamphlets that Maung Maung Myint admitted he had personally authored .
Than Tun stated Maung Maung Myint had also admitted to authoring an anti - government pamphlet targeting monks and students and that 1000 copies of these pantalets had been produced for public distribution .
Than Tun stated the pro - democracy activist were obviously trying to get the sympathy of monks as well as the general public for the pro - democracy cause .
Than Tun stated that Myanmar 's military will take legal action against some of the 12 arrested activists and release those Myanmar 's military deem to be innocent after the investigation is complete .
Than Tun stated that everything involving the prosecution of the 12 arrested activist will be legal and transparent .
Than Tun stated that international human rights group such as Amnesty International do not need to be concerned about illegal prosecution of the 12 arrested activist .
Amnesty International returned last week from Amnesty International 's first fact - finding mission to Myanmar .
Myanmar is widely criticised for Myanmar 's poor human rights record .
In a 030210 briefing in Bangkok regarding Amnesty International 's first visit to Myanmar , Amnesty International called for the release of all political prisoners and pressured Myanmar 's government to improve Myanmar 's human rights record .
Amnesty International stated that Myanmar 's authorities had in no way hindered Amnesty International 's fact - finding mission .
Than Tun stated that despite the fact that it was clear some members of the opposition parties were involved in anti - Government activities Myanmar 's military have not accused the leadership of the National League for Democracy or the Shan National League for Democracy of being directly involved .
Than Tun stated that it remains to be seen whether the opposition parties involved will take disciplinary action or act in the defense of the 12 arrested activist .
The National League for Democracy won general elections in 900000 and won 392 of 485 contested seats .
The ruling junta has refused to recognise the victory of the National League for Democracy .
2003-02-18
South Africa ( ZA ) ; Iraq ( IQ )
International ; weapons ; proliferation
A team of South African weapons experts departs for Iraq with UN approval to assist with Iraq 's disarmament program .
Political tensions are increasing as the U.S. threatens war against Iraq .
South African President Thabo Mbeki stated on 18 February 2003 that a South African team of weapons experts will depart to Iraq within days to assist with Iraq 's disarmament program .
In an address to parliament in Cape Town Mbeki stated --
A number of distinguished South Africans will travel to Iraq this week .
The weapons experts will be able to address all matters that relate to nuclear , chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction , missile systems , non - proliferation and disarmament .
Mbeki stated in his State of the Nation Address on 14 February 2003 that Iraq had accepted an offer from South Africa to send a team of weapons experts to assist Iraqi government officials , scientists and engineers with its disarmament program .
South Africa dismantled a number of nuclear weapons 10 years ago and was recently praised for its model cooperation with weapons experts invited to inspect its sites .
Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Aziz Pahad stated that South Africa is the only country in the world that has destroyed nuclear weapons .
Pahad stated that the group of South African experts will be able to assist the Iraqis by relating its experience .
The team of seven experts comprises Deon Smit , Ben Steyn , Phillip Coleman , super moloi , Daan van beeck , Peter Goosen and Tom Markram .
The team would visit Iraq in a consulting role and would not replace UN weapons inspectors .
Ben Steyn is a colonel in the South African National Defense Force .
Steyn oversaw the end of the apartheid regime 's chemical and biological warfare program called Project Coast .
Germ warfare expert Wouter Basson directed Project Coast before Steyn .
In 2002 Basson was acquitted in a South African court on all 46 charges filed against him including murder , fraud and drug dealing .
Basson 's trial related to his work as head of Project Coast .
Basson 's trial lasted 30 months .
Smit is a South African parastatal Armscor 's acquisitions general manager .
Coleman is the Managing Director of South Africa 's designated single small - scale facility in terms of the Chemical Weapons Convention .
Van beek is the director of non - proliferation and space in the Trade and Industry Department .
Van beek also heads the secretariat for the Council for the non - proliferation of weapons of mass destruction which oversees South Africa 's non - proliferation legislation .
Mbeki expressed confidence that the South African team of experts would contribute greatly to Iraq 's efforts to meet obligations imposed by the UN Security Council .
The Government of South Africa 's proposal to assist the Iraqi government was discussed with UN Secretary - General Kofi Annan and the UN weapons inspectors in Iraq .
This week the UN Security Council is debating U.S. threats to lead a war on Iraq after chief UN weapons inspector Hans Blix delivered a progress report to the body on 14 February 2003 .
South Africa 's ambassador to the United Nations Dumisani Khumalo has been calling for public sessions of the Security Council instead of closed meetings in order to allow other countries to participate in discussions .
South Africa is the chair of both the African Union and Non - Aligned Movement and has been vocal in its opposition to an attack on Iraq .
South Africa states that the UN Security Council is the only body fit to deal with the matter .
In February 2003 Nobel Peace Prize laureate and former President Nelson Mandela stated that U.S. President George W. Bush lacked foresight , could not think properly , and would cause a world holocaust if the U.S. continued with plans to wage war against Iraq .
Critics have stated that despite the dire effects an Iraqi conflict would have on the African continent South Africa needed to carefully assess balancing its economic relations with the United States with its serious opposition to a U.S. - led war .
In his speech before parliament 14 February 2003 Mbeki referred to this criticism as most unfortunate stating --
Critics suggest that the South African Government 's behavior with regard to the United States Government should be governed by economic benefits that derive from AGOA ( African Growth and Opportunity Act ) .
The South African government maintains very good relations with the United States Government .
Differences on any issue have never pressured the South African Government into submitting to the United States ' views .
2003-02-20
Iran ( IR )
International ; Government ; energy ; weapons ; politics
Iranian opposition group accused Iran of building banned uranium enrichment sites as part of a nuclear weapons program with goal of altering power balance in region .
UN nuclear inspectors to depart for Iran to conduct inspections of 2 sites .
On 20 February 2003 Iranian opposition group National Council of Resistance of Iran ( NCRI ) stated that Iran was building banned uranium enrichment sites as part of a nuclear weapons program .
The statement was made on the evening preceding a UN team 's departure for Iran to conduct inspections at 2 nuclear sites .
U.S. Representative for NCRI soona samsami stated at a press conference in Washington D.C. that Iran 's strategy is to build weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons in particular in order to alter the balance of power in the region in its favor and to facilitate export of fundamentalism and terrorism .
UN International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors and its director Mohamed ElBaradei depart for Iran 21 February 2003 to conduct an inspection at a site in Natanz where representatives of the NCRI have stated that the regime has concealed a test centrifuge .
NCRI showed satellite photographs of a site in Natanz portraying a cluster of warehouses in which the group claims the regime has hidden centrifuges used to enrich uranium that could be used in nuclear weapons .
Samsami stated that the clerical regime is taking advantage of the current crisis in the region and has accelerated its efforts to obtain nuclear weapons .
On 09 February 2003 Iranian President Mohammed Khatami recognized the existence of a uranium mine and extraction center but promised that the uranium would be used only for peaceful purposes .
The U.S. government was skeptical of Iran 's intentions and stated that Iran 's pursuit of a complete fuel cycle only made sense if it were pursuing nuclear weapons .
NCRI stated on 20 February 2003 that Iran 's clerical rulers are also building and have tested missiles that would eventually have a range of 4000 to 6000 kilometers ( 2500 to 3700 miles ) .
NCRI stated that the information on Iran 's weapons program had been supplied through their intelligence network within Iran and that satellite photographs were supplied by the Institute for Science and International Security .
The Institute for Science and International Security is a non - profit clearinghouse for security information and images .
Samsami stated --
The Iranian government had removed sensitive equipment from the Natanz site in anticipation of the IAEA inspection this weekend .
The Iranian government intended to bar IAEA entry to 1 of the 5 large buildings where the centrifuge is located and would claim that it is a warehouse similar to the other 4 .
Samsami provided street addresses of the suspect facilities .
ElBaradei planned to conduct inspections at the Natanz facility south of Tehran and at the Arak site southwest of Tehran on 22 February 2003 and 23 February 2003 .
NCRI stated that the Arak site produces heavy water for the production of plutonium .
Plutonium is used as a trigger in nuclear weapons .
Samsami stated that such weapons are a matter of survival for the regime in Iran .
Samsami stated that Iran 's clerical regime is in a tenuous position facing unprecedented social disenchantment and expansion of popular resistance and would therefore not hesitate to use weapons of mass destruction to stabilize its position .
The Government of Iran revealed earlier this month that it had discovered uranium deposits near the central city of Yazd and that a uranium oxide plant had been completed in the central city of Isfahan and would be complemented by an enrichment plant now under construction near Kashan to its north .
The plant in Yazd Province would produce concentrated yellow cake uranium while another facility at an undisclosed location would complete the cycle by producing finished fuel made entirely in Iran .
2003-02-26
China ( CN ) ; Myanmar ( MM ) ; Thailand ( TH ) ; Philippines ( PH ) ; Japan ( JP ) ; Cambodia ( KH ) ; Indonesia ( ID ) ; Vietnam ( VN ) ; Laos ( LA ) ; Malaysia ( MY )
Narcotics ; international
The International Narcotics Control Board reported on February 26 , 2003 that illicit manufacture of methamphetamines has risen significantly in Southeast Asia .
The International Narcotics Control Board reported on February 26 , 2003 that illicit manufacture of methamphetamines has risen significantly in Southeast Asia .
The United Nations organ said there continues to be indications that manufacturers of heroin are increasingly shifting their attention to methamphetamine particularly in Myanmar .
The Vienna - based Board stated that the psychotropic substance is clandestinely manufactured on a large scale along Myanmar 's border with Thailand and in China and the Philippines .
Methamphetamine remains the main drug of concern in Japan , the Philippines and Thailand .
The Thai health ministry has estimated that three million people regularly abuse the substance .
That is five percent of the Thailand 's population .
Thailand is the world 's largest consumer of methamphetamines .
Authorities in Japan have reported a rise in the abuse of stimulants .
The Board stated that a sharp rise in methamphetamine abuse has also been noted in Cambodia , Indonesia , Laos , Malaysia and Vietnam .
In China there has been a rise in arrests related to the drug .
The report stated that the abuse of amphetamines among children has risen sharply in Cambodia .
Law enforcement efforts apprehended amphetamines in East Asia .
The UN organ stated that more than 70 percent of all the seizures in amphetamines made in the world took place in East and Southeast Asia , mainly China and Thailand .
Most of the world manufacture of amphetamine - type stimulants has taken place in the region .
The exception is MDMA ( Ecstasy ) .
The report stated production of methamphetamine poses a growing threat to other regions .
Seizures of the drug have increased in Europe and the United States .
Illicit opium poppy cultivation decreased in Laos and Myanmar .
The Board said that the region still witnesses massive amounts of trafficking .
The region remains the second largest source of opium and heroin in the world behind Afghanistan .
The report said intravenous drug abuse has become one of the driving forces behind the HIV / AIDS epidemic in the region .
The Board told Indonesia , Myanmar and the Philippines to enforce without delaying laws passed over the last couple of years in the three countries .
This referred to an issue closely related to the illicit drugs trade , namely money - laundering and was to combat the practice .
The Board voiced concern that Cambodia and North Korea have yet to become parties to any of the international drug control treaties .
2003-03-15
India ( IN ) ; Pakistan ( PK )
War and conflict ; terrorism
Kashmiri militant groups claim responsibility for attack on Indian police post in the disputed region that killed at least 11 people .
Indian officials claim that foreign infiltrators from Pakistan executed the attack but local Kashmiri groups call this baseless propaganda .
On 16 March 2003 Kashmiri militants claimed responsibility for an attack on a police post in the disputed state of Kashmir in India stating that they attacked to avenge the killing of their commanders by Indian troops .
The Hizbul Mujahideen is the largest group fighting Indian rule in the disputed Himalayan region .
A spokesman for Hizbul Mujahideen who declined to be identified stated to AFP --
The attack was in retaliation to the recent killing of district commander Amanullah and 3 other fighters of Hizbul Mujahideen by the Indian army in Kashmir .
Approximately 10 to 15 fighters from Hizbul Mujahideen , Harkatul Mujahideen , Harkatul Jihad - e - Islami and Al Badar attacked the camp before midnight on 15 March 2003 and into 16 March 2003 and killed at least 12 soldiers .
All the fighters who participated in the operation were local Kashmiris not infiltrators from Pakistan as claimed by Indian officials .
The Indian claim that cross - border incursions have increased is baseless and aimed at covering up its failures in occupied Kashmir .
The militants attacked the post in Gool in the Udhampur district approximately 95 miles north of Indian Kashmir 's winter capital Jammu .
At least 11 people were killed in the attack .
A spokesman for another Kashmiri separatist group called Harkatul Mujahideen agreed with the Hizbul official stating --
The attack was executed by local Kashmiri fighters affiliated with 4 groups .
If India blames foreign militants it is part of its propaganda to mislead the international community .
The Kashmir region is divided between India and Pakistan and is claimed by both .
