The group say the foreign broadcaster be batter the eat dogmeat culture and that it be insult behavior .
The ban 5 Islamic group include the 2 hardline militant group fight Indian rule in Kashmir which the Indian government accuse of stage the violent 011213 attack on the Indian parliament .
A reporter who do not want to be name from the publication of the Islam daily of Al-Rashid Trust state that it would not be easy for the Pakistani government to ban the religious extremist publication and make over 500 employee jobless .
A number of al-Qaeda militant include Millennium plot bomber Ahmed Ressam be know to have remain in Canada .
Kazakhstan also become a key U.S. partner in the Afghan war open its airspace to military overflights .
Kang Chang - Sung of the opposition Grand National Party express doubt of the fairness of the evaluation method state that his party suspect that the Defense Ministry have political reason to select the F - 15 k.
N. R. Mohanty state that Hindustan Aeronautics Limited 's indigenous aircraft will cost slightly little or be almost equal to 30 million United States dollar each .
Brazilian Defense Minister in Moscow for cooperation talk with government official and lead member of Russia 's military - industrial complex .
Under Vietnam 's strict drug law anyone find in possession of 300 gram ( 10 ounce ) or much of heroin or 10 kilogram ( 22 pound ) or much of opium be consider guilty of traffic .
Min say Myanmar would be one of the rich country in the region if they be as corrupt as outsider claim .
Its global announcement come via the regime 's newly - appoint public relation firm in Washington .
German group Siemens pull out of the long - stand project at the request of the German government after Iran 's 1979 Islamic Revolution .
Narain state on 28 June 2002 that Indian government have already acquire Israeli Green Pine radars that be capable of simultaneously track several in - flight missile .
In May 2001 Pakistan test - fire 3 missile capable of carry nuclear warhead .
20020500 senior ASEAN member Malaysia , Indonesia and the Philippine sign an anti - terror security pact intend to initiate the eradication of terrorism from the region .
20020500 ASEAN security minister at a meet in Kuala Lumpur fail to agree on a definition of terrorism but agree to increase cooperation among State enforcement agency and endorse the use of detention without trial for suspect militant in Malaysia and Singapore .
The Russian government hail cooperation of Arab country in fight terrorism and say not one Arab state back the Chechen separatist who be accuse of wage a terrorist campaign .
Yakovenko say the Russian Government find it inadmissible to link individual States or religion with terrorism or extremism and be grateful to those Arab state which be try to cooperate with Russian law enforcement agency to cut channel for fund terrorist organization .
Sheni tell delegate at the Global Forum for Health Research 's annual meet that little than 10 percent of the global health research budget of 70 billion dollar go to Africa .
Africa have 90 percent of the global disease .
A U.S. study release on 03 December 2002 state that one - tenth of the Internet 's site may be block by Chinese authority as part of effort to prevent access to information on dissident , Taiwan , Tibet and other subject .
Edelman tell AFP that it be highly likely that approximately one - tenth of the Internet be filter by or recently have be filter by China .
The researcher find that 100 percent of the top 10 site with keywords Tibet , Taiwan China , or equality be block .
IAEA and other UN inspector have be take soil , water and air sample since November 27 , 2001 at Iraqi site suspect of be use for programs to make weapon of mass destruction .
North Korea remove UN seal at a laboratory suspect of be use to produce weapon - grade material .
The experimental nuclear plant in Yongbyon be a miniature of electricity - produce nuclear plant in Western country but operate on the same principle .
2 Pakistani nuclear scientist be arrest 12 month ago and interrogate by US Federal Bureau of Investigation agent on suspicion of possible cooperation with the Taliban .
Samsami state that Iran 's clerical regime be in a tenuous position face unprecedented social disenchantment and expansion of popular resistance and would therefore not hesitate to use weapon of mass destruction to stabilize its position .
Indian official claim that foreign infiltrator from Pakistan execute the attack but local Kashmiri group call this baseless propaganda .
A spokesman for Hizbul Mujahideen who decline to be identify state to AFP --
Jalali state that among the former Taliban member arrest be several well - know former Taliban figure who be in Afghanistan to establish a network of terrorist organization and to conduct anti - government activity in the area .
Troops be face angry farmer unaware that poppy cultivation be now punishable as a drug traffic offense .
The campaign require troop to confront angry resident desperate to earn a live and unaware they be violate the law .
More than 10 of the hunger striker have be treat in hospital for dehydration .
Hunger striker be affect by France 's heat wave .
On 030715 Australia 's government dismiss a threat by North Korea 's self - appoint spokesman of a North Korean nuclear attack on Australia if Australia take part in an international operation to prevent ship from traffic weapon of mass destruction .
North Korea 's self - appoint spokesman be the Executive Director of the Centre for Korean - American peace name Kim Myong - Chol .
The meet will take place from 22 July 2003 - 25 July 2003 in one of the corner of the Golden Triangle and be the first of its kind .
The Times report say that sample of uranium take by UN inspector in Iran in 030600 test positive for enrichment level high enough to be consistent with an attempt to build a nuclear weapon .
The US demand that the Iranian government be bring before the UN Security Council for possible sanction while Britain , France and Germany demand that Iran be reward for cooperate with the IAEA since 20031000 but neither demand be meet by the resolution .
The suspension of uranium enrichment be provisional and voluntary and intend to build confidence .
From its London headquarters Amnesty International issue a statement say that the Lao People 's Democratic Republic have international obligation in this regard under the Geneva Conventions and the 2 UN covenant .
Small band of ethnic minority rebel predominantly Hmong remain from the CIA - sponsor guerrilla army mobilize to wage the United States ' secret campaign in Laos during the Vietnam War .
Amnesty International call on the Lao Government to provide UN agency and other non - governmental organization access to all those who have put down their arm in order to assist with basic humanitarian need .
New Finance Minister Nicolas Sarkozy be look at measure to favor those who do not relocate .
Albanian justice minister Adrian dvorani state the anti - Mafia law also provide for the special protection of witness or people involve in illegal traffic who decide to testify and will enable a much efficient strategy .
International Police expert based in Tirana estimate the value of the narcotic in transit at over 2 billion dollar ( about 1.6 billion euros ) per year .
The company have previously call hejian technology a friendly company while deny any financial tie between the two .
The goal of the submarine deal be to strengthen a weakness in India 's conventional military capability .
20050519 minister and official from country surround the Mekong River ( Cambodia , China , Laos , Myanmar , Thailand and Vietnam ) meet to discuss the progress of a 1993 pact aim at stem illicit drug in the sixth semiannual Ministerial Meeting in Siem Reap , northwestern Cambodia .
Myanmar be the 2nd large opium producer globally and the United States have criticize Myanmar for fail to meet international anti - drug commitment .
China consider Taiwan part of its territory await reunification since they split at the end of the civil war in 490000 , and have repeatedly threaten to invade if Taiwan move towards formal independence .
Meltrex be an update version of Kaletra that be pending approval by U.S. health authority .
20050705 terrorist attack may prompt counter - extremism measure sufficient to force Islamist militant organization in London into convert operation via the Internet .
Singh be the first foreign leader to meet with Chirac since be release from the hospital on 20050909 after a report minor vascular problem affect his vision .
The Financial Times say research and development investment in China be 1.31 percent of GDP in 030000 but be rise at a double - digit rate .
Embraer be 1 of 4 competitor for a contract to supply the Brazilian air force with 12 new supersonic fighter .
2 militant identify as member of the Pakistan - based Lashkar - e - Tayyaba group be kill .
The plan be successfully stop in their final stage in December 2001 and 15 cell member be arrest .
The terrorist belong to Jemaah Islamiah designate by the U.S. government as a terrorist organization and describe in 1 of the phillipine report as part of the broad al-Qaida syndicate .
The ammonium nitrate be purchase by capture Malaysian chemist and retire army captain Yazid Sufaat .
The Group have far plan to hijack a U.S. , British or Singaporean plane and crash it into Changi Airport in order to threaten the U.S. government to halt its military strike against Afghanistan .
The peace process be arduous but will not be abandon until peace be achieve .
Ker Chien - ming , the Democratic Progressive Party ( DPP ) whip at the Taiwan legislature say on 040628 that discussion be turn negative in regard to whether the China Shipbuilding Corp. ( CSBC ) shall take part in the construction of submarine which the United States have promise to sell to Taiwan .
Lee add that an order of Kidd - class destroyer due to arrive at Taiwan by the end of next year would allow Taiwan to still maintain its edge .
The long process to try to control and reduce arm in the embattled Balkans be formally launch on 951218 in Bonn , Germany .
Croatia , Bosnia - Herzegovina and Serbia be the nation that sign the Dayton accord and be suppose to report how many tank and armored vehicle , heavy artillery piece , combat aircraft and attack helicopter they possess in the next phase .
On 1 July 1999 arm troop and a group of government weapon expert aid custom official and gain forcible entry onto the kuwolsan .
A Plate - bend machine capable of roll thick metal sheet , toroidal air bottle use to guide warhead after separation from a missile , and Theodolites that measure missile trajectory .
A technical committee of Indian missile expert state that the equipment be unimpeachable and irrefutable evidence of a plan to transfer not just missile but missile - make capability .
The technical panel write in a report that the cargo point to only one end - use , namely the assemble of missile and manufacture of the part and subassemblies of surface to surface missile .
One Indian government official who study the blueprint state the science be old and date but still functional .
Missile expert and senior analyst at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies Timothy V. McCarthy examine some of the blueprint and other evidence and state this be a slice in time of a technology transfer from North Korea to Libya .
Shipping expert at Lloyd 's maritime division in London state the kuwolsan 's name be change in the summer of 2000 to Sun grisan 9 .
On 31 August 1998 North Korean official launch a 3 - stage missile which heighten fear of advance North Korean design capable of reach the U.S. mainland .
North Korean official have sell missile and part to Yemen which receive 15 Scud missile after the missile be briefly intercept by U.S. and Spanish naval crew off the Yemeni coast in December 1998 .
At the State Scientific Center of apply microbiology there be every kind of deadly bacterium that be study for use in the secret biological weapon program of the Soviet Union .
A biological warfare expert at the Monterey Institute of International Studies name Raymond zilinskas state that the main threat from cut power to the State Scientific Center of apply microbiology would be to the organism themselves rather than that they may escape .
The US government have consult the Brazilian Government about the provision of US law .
Viegas state in an interview in Brasilia that the government will use the law to much powerfully dissuade drug trafficker who have previously enter Brazilian airspace feel unthreatened by the air force .
Chavez insist that the move be purely defensive and born of an overdue need to update obsolete military hardware and protect Venezuela from nation that may want to take control of Venezuela .
Retired General Fernando OCHOA ANTICH say that it be an exaggeration to say Chavez be engage in an arm buildup .
The South African Foreign Ministry state that any person find in violation of South Africa 's Foreign Military Assistance Act or any person that fail to receive permission to participate in foreign military activity can be prosecute and sentence to a fine , imprisonment or both .
3 police personnel include an inspector and a sub - inspector be kill when 2 police vehicle be move towards Tikapur area in Kailali district in search of the guerrilla .
The Nepali government initiate peace talk with the guerrilla in August 2001 in order to find a peaceful solution to the guerrilla insurgency that have kill much than 5000 people include policeman , guerrilla member and civilian since it begin in the Himalayan kingdom in 1996 .
United Nations arm inspector on December 28 , 2002 visit 7 site in Iraq in order to search for prohibit weapon of mass destruction accord to spokesman Hiro Ueki .
A team of biological expert from the United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission visit the Yaffa juice plant of the National Food Industries Co. in Baghdad 's zafaraniyah industrial area .
The Yaffa juice plant be self - finance , have a mix ownership and be a previously declare and monitor site due to the presence of some dual - use equipment .
Some United Nations Monitoring , Verification and Inspection Commission missile expert conduct an unannounced visit to the Al qaib warhead - fill factory in the Al Qa Qaa complex which undertake fill of warhead of Al Samoud and Al Fatah missile .
The site be locate within a large compound occupy by other company and institution include a regional office of the rule bath Party and the whole compound be inspect by the United Nations arm expert accord to Hiro Ueki .
American government have recently form a proliferation security initiative that consists of 11 member .
Members of the Proliferation Security Initiative be consider way of intercept ship or aircraft suspect of carry weapon of mass destruction .
HKUST also collaborate with a prominent mainland manufacturer on the development of a nanomaterial - based high - capacity lithium battery .
